o f f i c i a l   g a m e   F A q
Includes Aftermath, Carnomorphs And voidseeders

v 2 . 1   0 8 . 0 8 . 2 0 2 0

rules  

1)  When a Character is in Escape pod and decided not to launch 
immediately, they need to pass current turn. If in Event Phase, 
an Adult token is drawn from the bag, do they roll for Noise?
The Character is treated like present in the Room, so they perform 
Noise roll in such case.

2) 

How does waiting in the Escape Pod work? If a player 
decides to wait, they can launch the pod in their next 
turn or leave the pod without taking Action?
Basically, when a player waits, they pass their current turn. At the 
start of their first Round in the NEXT turn, the player has 3 options:
1. Stay in the pod and keep waiting–the player passes their turn.
2. Launch  the  pod–the  pod  gets  launched  immediately,  and 
Character in this pod is no longer taking part in the further 
game (although will do a Victory check at the end).

3. Leave the pod without spending Action–which means that the 
Character is placed back in the corresponding Evacuation Section 
and may play a full round consisting of 2 Actions.

3)  What happens if there are no Intruders in nearby 
Rooms, all Corridors have Noise markers in them 
and the player rolls Danger during a Noise roll?
If there are no Corridors you can put Noise markers in, nothing happens.

4)  When a character makes a Move to escape from a Room 

with more than one Intruder, how many of them attack?
You draw one Intruder Attack card for each Intruder, starting from 
the larger ones (Queen, Breeder, Adult, and Larva).

5) 

6) 

If you draw an Event that says “Remove this Event 
from the game” but you can’t resolve its other 
content, do you still remove it from the game?
You always remove in such case. You got lucky on this one, that’s all.

Do you put an Adult Intruder token from Intruder bag 
development phase immediately back into the bag 
or do you put it back after resolving Noise rolls?
It goes back in immediately so you can draw the same token when 
triggering an Encounter.

11)  What happens if a Character is attacked by a Larva 

and they already have a Larva on their board?
The attacking Larva disappears. The Larva on Character board stays 
intact. The Character just gets a Contamination card.

12)  If Characters hibernate and the Room catches 

fire afterward, do they take any damage?
No, they are treated as out of the game already. Nothing may happen 
to them, except for the destruction of the ship, in which case they die.

13)  Does an Event “Coolant Leak” starts the Self-Destruct 

countdown when there are already hibernated Characters?
Yes. They need to take the risks into consideration before hibernating.

14)  If a Character sends a Signal does it affect other players?

Each Character has a slot on their Character sheet for marking the 
signal so it should be clear that its an individual action. This is also 
true for the full-coop mode, but the objective gets fulfilled for everyone, 
even though only one player gets the token (mind that if there are 
more than one Objectives which require sending the signal, according 
number of Characters need to do that).

15)  Does the “Leg” Serious Wound effect 

last until the end of the game?
This effect applies as long as leg wound is not dressed.

16)  When a Character dies in a Cooperative mode, 

does he lose his items and objects?
The heavy objects are dropped, but items stay in the inventory (starting 
weapons too).

17)  When a Character dies in a Cooperative mode, can other 

players scan his body in the Lab and then Revive him?
They can use this body in Laboratory and then revive it.

18)  When you discard Intruder tokens (when you discards them from 
the Intruder bag or an Intruder dies), do you remove them from 
the game or add them to supply of unused Intruder tokens?
Just add them to the token pool, they are usable in the game all the 
time. Token is in the token pool all the time, so it can be put in the 
bag when another intruder appears for some reason or when any 
Intruder (of the same type) go into Technical Corridors.

7)  What happens if the Intruder retreats from combat, and 

19)  What happens if you start the Self-destruct 

Event card directs it to the Corridor with Doors?
The door gets destroyed and Intruder stays in the room. If there is 
“The way of moving” weakness, and affected Intruder is not Breeder 
nor Queen, nothing happens at all.

sequence during turn 5 or less?
If the Autodestruction track is active and nobody stops it, the ship 
is gonna explode when it’s about to perform the jump (or when the 
game ends because the last player escaped/hibernated/died).

8) 

If you have a “Hand” Serious Wound, does it also take 
an additional Action to perform a Shoot Action?
No, because Shoot is a Basic action, not an Item action.

20)  Are you allowed to play an Interruption card 

AFTER you have Passed your round?
Yes.

9) 

Can Intruders move into unexplored Rooms?
Yes.

10)  Does Intruder Weakness “Vulnerability to fire” 

deals additional Injury for every Injury dealt? How 
many Injuries an Intruder suffers when you roll two 
“crosshairs” while shooting Flamethrower?
Intruders suffer one additional Injury for each damage instance, so 
it’s always “x + 1”, meaning that in this case it suffers 3 Injuries.

21)  Can you put Malfunction markers and Fire 

markers in unrevealed Rooms?
You cannot put Malfunction markers on unexplored Rooms.
You can put Fire markers on unexplored Rooms.

22)  What happens if you receive 2 Light Wounds 

and you already have 2 Light Wounds?
Get 1 serious wound and place status marker on 1 light wound space.

23)  Character Death: If a Character dies, their Heavy Objects are 

dropped. What happens to their normal Items and Objects?
They disappear from the game. By Heavy Object, we only mean 
Character’s Corpse, Intruder Carcass, or Intruder Egg.

2

Noise roll and Danger and Silence on exploration tokens are automatic 
Noise roll results. Reconnaissance also cancels out both Silence and 
Danger effects.

11)  Can you use an Order Action card to trigger the Escape rule?

Order cannot be used when Captain is in Combat. However, you can 
force someone else to Move out of Combat using Intercom (Escape 
rule applies normally).

12)  Which players can draw an Action card when Captain uses 

his Motivation card while having an active Intercom?
All players in all rooms with Computer, as well as in room with 
Captain are affected.

13)  What happens when you use the Technical Corridors 

Action card or the Technical Corridors Plans Item card 
and reveal an Exploration token with Doors?
In such case you ignore the token’s effect because it’s impossible to 
determine the direction you came from.

14)  If a Character performs Search Action in a white Room 

can he draw Item cards of two different colors?
As in example below the main rule–when searching through a white 
room, you draw 2 cards from any ONE deck (so 2 cards from yellow, 
red or green decks, without mixing the colours).

15)  Can an Interruption card be played to stop 

an Action of the Intruder player?
No, it can be used only against other Characters.

16)  Can I Interrupt an Order Action played by Captain via Intercom?

You need to be in the same Room as Character performing the Action 
in order to use Interruption, therefore, no.

24)  Self destruct. When the marker reaches the first yellow space 

(ie. space nr. 3), the escape pods unlock automatically. 
Then someone locks them again. Then the marker reaches 
the next yellow space (ie. space 2). What happens? Do 
the escape pods unlock automatically again, or the only 
way to unlock them is to unlock them manually?
The only way to unlock them is to do it manually.

25)  Does blowing up the ship fulfill the Objectives 

for killing the Queen/destroying the Nest?
Yes.

Actions  

1) 

If there are multiple players in the same Room and one of 
them performs a Trade action, who can trade with whom?
All character in the Room can trade with each other, so an exchange 
between two Characters who didn’t pay for the Action may occur.

2)  What kind of Action is Quest item activation?

This is a Basic action printed on the Quest item cards. It cannot be 
used when in Combat.

3)  Which Basic actions can be used in Combat?

As for Basic actions, you can ONLY fight (ie. Shoot or Melee) or 
escape (ie. Basic Movement). Other than that, you can use all actions 
and items which don’t have “not in combat” icon. No Room actions 
allowed. No Quest item activation either.

4) 

Character Escape: Can a player escape by any 
Movement action (such as Careful Movement)?
No, the player may escape only using basic Movement Action (which 
becomes Escape Action), or Action from cards/items without “not 
in combat” icon.

5)  When you perform the Search action, do you shuffle 

the card that was not chosen back into the deck?
You put the discarded card on the bottom of the deck.

If you use a Covering Fire Action card to move yourself 
and other Character, can they move into different 
Rooms? Can a Soldier use this Action for himself?
Both of you move in the direction of your choice and you perform one 
Noise roll. If you trigger an Encounter this way, surprise attack check 
goes for Soldier. And yes, Soldier can use this card only for himself.

How exactly works the Full Auto Action card?
You remove all of the ammo, then you perform a single Shoot action. 
You add the number of Injuries from Shoot and from discarded 
ammo/2 (rounded down) and +1 for Assault Rifle’s bonus.

Can I see the Intruder Attack card before 
using the Nerves of Steel card?
Yes, you can check if the attack is going to hurt you.

6) 

7) 

8) 

9) 

Can I use the Nerves of Steel card when someone else 
in the same Room triggers a Surprise Attack?
Yes, but you are the only one to benefit from it (eg. when the “Frenzy” 
attack is drawn, the Soldier doesn’t take damage, but the rest of the 
Characters do).

10)  What happens if you use Careful Movement or 
the Reconnaissance Action card and reveal an 
exploration token with Danger result?
You apply the careful movement result because it cancels out the 

3

Rooms  

Items  

1)  When you use Surgery, do you keep non-

infected Contamination cards?
Yes, they keep not-Infected Contamination cards.

2)  When you throw a grenade/Molotov cocktail in the 
Nest from a neighboring room, will your noise roll 
be from your own Room or from the Nest?
In such case, you need to perform the Noise roll in the Room you are in.

3) 

Can a Scientist use Intranet to use Laboratory to discover 
Intruder Weakness while carrying the Intruder Carcass token?
Carcass has to be in the Laboratory room. Same for every other 
Heavy Object.

4)  What does Research mean in the Laboratory 

rules? Why shouldn’t I discard the analysed object 
after discovering Intruder Weakness?
Research  is  equal  to  Analyse.  Objects  may  be  required  for 
some Objectives.

5)  Will Nemesis explode when the Time Track moves 

into the red space and there are Malfunction markers 
on the Cockpit or on the Engine Rooms?
No. The state of Engines has nothing to do with condition of the 
room itself. Same for coordinates. Malfunction only prevents from 
checking/changing Engine states and Coordinates.

6) 

7) 

8) 

9) 

Can you use the Storage Room when its Item Counter is at zero?
Yes, the Item Counter is important for the sake of using Search Action. 
Search is an Action card. It has different rules than Storage’s Room 
action. So when using action from the Search card, you treat it like 
any other room. You can use the Room Action as many times as you 
want as long as you pay the cost of that Action.

9) 

Are Eggs on Intruder Board considered to be in 
the Nest Room? What if the Nest is on fire?
Yes, egg pile on the Intruder board represents eggs in the Nest. They 
are somewhat like the Nest’s HP, so when it is on fire, one of them 
is discarded in each Fire damage phase. If “Vulnerability to fire” 
weakness is discovered, 2 eggs die each turn.

Can you use the Fire Control System Room on the Room 
where is a Character and Intruder in Combat? What happens 
if the Intruder retreats into the Corridor with closed Door?
Yes, it can be used to make Intruders run from the combat. Door 
rules are always applied, so if retreating Intruder bumps into a door 
on his way out, it destroys those and stays in the room.

The eggs in the Nest issue–are eggs on the 
Intruder Board in the Nest Room or not?
You can look at it in this way: eggs on Intruder Board are the eggs 
glued to the Room’s surface, therefore picking them up is hard. 
Once you get such an egg out and drop it in the Nest, it is dropped 
as a normal Heavy Object. It is technically IN the Nest Room, but it 
doesn’t count to the Nest ‘Hit Points’ anymore

1) 

2) 

3) 

Smoke Grenade : Does “lose 1 action card each” 
mean that the target player choose 1 Action 
card from their hand and discard it?
Yes.

Can you use Medkit on other players? What about Bandages?
Yes, for both.

Can I use Energy Charge to reload someone else’s weapon?
No. In such case, you need to trade Energy Charge and the Character 
who owns the weapon must use it in their Round.

4)  When you use an Alcohol Item card and the Contamination card 

was INFECTED, do you put Larva on your character board?
No, having an INFECTED Contamination card means only taking a 
new Contamination card in this case.

5) 

If your Energy Weapon has been used, or even empty, 
and you add an Extended Magazine or an Auto Loader, 
do you immediately get some extra Ammo with it?
Yes.

6)  When you craft a Flamethrower is it fully loaded?

Yes.

7) 

Does a “Hand” Serious Wound affect Scout’s Motion Scanner?
No, it is not an Item Action, as it is a unique reaction ability.

8)  Where are dropped Items discarded? (p. 22)

They go to the same discard pile as used Items.

I find it confusing to use Antidote/Surgery Room.
When you use Antidote, you scan all possible cards you have. From the 
hand, from discard, and from action deck. You REMOVE all INFECTED 
Contamination cards for good. Then you take 1 Contamination card 
and reshuffle everything (the just-drawn Contamination card, all non-
Infected Contamination cards that you scanned and all Action cards, 
but except cards left in your hand) to create a new Action deck and 
you pass. The difference between this and Surgery is that in Surgery 
you need to discard all cards from your hand and reshuffle them with 
all the other ones to create a new deck + you don’t draw additional 
Contamination card from Contamination cards pile. Using the Antidote 
you still need to pass, but you can pass with cards in your hand.

10)  Is it possible to activate a Quest Item in a 

Room with a Malfunction marker?
Yes.

4

AFTERMATH  

1) 

2) 

3) 

4) 

5) 

6) 

7) 

8) 

9) 

Does the Lucrative Offer allow to ignore the “all 
Exploration Tokens must be revealed” requirement?
Yes

Does the Lucrative Offer allow to ignore the 
Alert status at the end of the game?
Yes

Are there any rules for being able to play Epilogue 
without needing to play a regular game first? 
There are no such rules, but you can always write down some 
interesting endings of your games, and then use them to set up the 
Epilogue mode.

Oculobe drone: Do I get to see the Inventory of the spied 
player? Can I see their cards when they Search a room?
This Item works with all of the secret checks that affect the board. 
Checking engines, unexplored Rooms/exploration tokens. No inventory 
checking is allowed, nor the effect of a Search action.

Eggs Hatching Event: Do Larvae spawn in 
Rooms with Characters who carry Eggs?
No.

Adaptability Event: Does the discarded weakness still count 
towards objectives (Extreme Field Biology/Ab Ovo/Necroscopy)?
No. These objectives get harder with this event and some of them 
may become impossible to fulfill.

Royal Ceremony Event: Do I place a Queen 
on the board if she was killed before?
No. Once dead, Queen cannot come back into the game in any way. 

Bounty Hunter: Aggro Override seems to be useless 
because “Go Girl!” Action cannot be played in Combat.
It is possible to use your Trait in order to activate the Aggro Override 
ability.

Bounty Hunter: Laika Trait: how often can I use it?
As referred on the Trait card - the only moment to move Laika using 
trait is JUST BEFORE your FIRST ROUND. ONCE per GAME TURN 
(consisting of Player and Event phases).

10)  Bounty Hunter: Laika: does the dog prevent other Characters 

from rolling for Noise when they enter the Room containing it?
Yes, Laika counts as a Character in the Room.

11)  Bounty Hunter: Can Laika get slimed?

No.

12)  Medic: Field Dressing/Pharmacist. What kind of 

card do I draw when I am in the green Room?
Action card from your Action deck.

13)  Medic: ER card gives a feeling of Medic being severely 

overpowered because of drawing so many cards.
Remember that you ALWAYS have to spend 1 ammo from your Needle 
Gun, no matter which part of the ER card you use.

14)  CEO: Can I recharge the Robot in Armory Room?

No. It is not a Weapon.

5

15)  Convict: Who and where can use Cuffs Key item?

Basically anyone, anywhere. There is no range restriction, the item 
may be as well traded to Convict and then be used by himself.

16)  Can I use the Alarm Room in an unexplored Room?

Yes. Basic Rulebook describes that Intruders may enter unexplored 
Rooms.

CARNoMoRpHS  

1) 

If a Metagorger attacks a Character who already has 
a Mutation card, is the Metagorger removed after the 
attack and a Shambler token is added to the bag?
Yes.

2)  What happens to the Blank token after being 

drawn from the bag during Encounter?
It comes back to the bag immediately.

3) 

4) 

Rules in Intruder Bag Development say “Return the 
Blank token to the bag” after resolving the rest, while 
the Help card says the opposite. Which is correct?
The Help card version is correct. The blank token must be in the bag 
when rolling for noise.

Does the effect of an Adaptation card apply to all 
Carnomorph types or just to one of the corresponding 
miniatures on the Carnomorph board?
It applies to all Carnomorph types.

5)  What happens if there is “Agile” Adaptation and I attack with a 

Flamethrower/Prototype Shotgun and roll a Creeper symbol?
You miss because the Adaptation rule takes precedence.

6)  Mimicry Mutation - What happens in the “Not 

Infected” version if nobody else is in the Room? 
Does the character get attacked anyway?
Yes.

voID SEEDERS  

1) 

Surprise Attack description: The effect described on 
page 5 of the rulebook differs from the description 
in the rules summary. Which one is correct?
The rule described on Page 5 of the Rulebook is correct; the player 
gets a Contamination card and resolves a Panic card.

2)  What happens when Laika triggers a Void Seeder Encounter?

The dog is immediately Called back, like in a normal Encounter. 
Spawned Void Seeder is on a level according to Bounty Hunter’s 
Insanity level. Surprise Attack is not resolved.

3)  What happens when Laika triggers an Encounter 

and draws a Character Insanity token?
Noise markers are placed in all corridors adjacent to the Room Laika 
is in. The Panic card, however, is resolved by Bounty Hunter. Laika 
stays in the Room.

4) 

Does finding a Lair force players to choose their Objectives?
Same as in the case of discovering the Nest before the first Encounter 
- no.

5) 

6) 

7) 

8) 

Entering Escape Pod/Hibernating: Does resolving 
an Encounter with Panic card prevent a Character 
from accomplishing these actions?
If the Panic card doesn’t kill the Character or force them to move out 
of the Room, it does not interrupt these actions.

Is there a way the Lair can harm a Character?
Not besides the Noise rolls. When a Character misses the melee 
attack against a Lair, they get the Serious Wound normally. Escape 
from a Room with a Lair doesn’t trigger any kind of attack, though. 
The same goes for the Void Seeder attack phase - the Lair doesn’t 
attack in any way.

Using Turret exploration tokens with Void Seeders expansion.
You can add 3 tokens normally and place them on all Rooms. However, 
if you discover all of them and there are no Lairs, exchange last 
undiscovered exploration tokens to Lair tokens in the moment you 
explore them (e.g. when you have discovered 1 Lair and there are 2 
Rooms to explore left, if the next Exp token is not a Lair, you need 
to exchange it for the Lair token).

Can I use Melted Serious wounds in a Void Seeder game?
Technically, if you want to make the game a little easier, you can add 
these Serious wounds, however, they will only count into Serious 
wounds limit, having no active effect in the game, because Void 
Seeders don’t use Slime markers.

6

