Don't want to read the rules?
W a t c h   t h e   v i d e o : 
w w w . N e m e s i s B G . c o m  /  le a r n

g a m e   m a n u a l

g a m e   b y :

a d a m   k w a p i ń s k i

GAME elements                                                                                                          

Miniatures:

(Captain, Pilot, Scientist, Scout, Soldier, Mechanic)

6 Characters 

6 Larvae

3 Creepers

8 Adult Intruders (4 Different Sculpts)

contents

VICTORY CHECK

ROOMS AND CORRIDORS
MOVEMENT ACTION
EXPLORATION TOKENS

OBJECTIVES
ACTIONS
IN COMBAT ONLY / OUT OF COMBAT ONLY

GAME OVERVIEW 
GAME INTRODUCTION
GAME SETUP: STEPS 1–13, BOARD SETUP
GAME SETUP: STEPS 14–20, CREW SETUP
BOARD DESCRIPTION
DISCARD PILES
FLOW OF THE GAME 
(ROUND ORDER, PLAYER PHASE, EVENT PHASE)

4 
5 
6 
8 
9 
 
10 
 
11  PLAYER GOALS AND END OF THE GAME 
 
12  CRITICAL GAMEPLAY MOMENTS
 
 
 
14  MOVEMENT AND EXPLORATION TOKENS
 
 
 
15  NOISE ROLL
16 
17  NOISE / SLIME / FIRE MARKERS
 
18 
19  CHARACTER ESCAPE
20 
 
 
21  CHARACTER WOUNDS AND DEATH
 
22  OBJECTS AND ITEMS
 
23  SEARCHING, CRAFTING AND QUEST ITEMS
24  ROOM SHEET
 
 
25  ADDITIONAL ROOMS “2”
26  SPECIAL ROOMS
 
ESCAPE PODS
27  GAME MODES

INTRUDER INJURIES AND DEATH
INTRUDER RETREAT, INTRUDER ATTACK
CONTAMINATION CARDS

MALFUNCTION MARKERS, DOOR TOKENS
ENCOUNTER AND COMBAT

ROOMS WITH A COMPUTER
BASIC ROOMS “1”

CHARACTER HANDS AND INVENTORY

INTRUDER WEAKNESS CARDS

TECHNICAL CORRIDORS

2

1 Two-sided Board

6 Character Boards

11 Room “1” Tiles

9 Room “2” Tiles

2 Breeders

1 Queen

1 Scanner

1 Intruder Board

1 Intruder Bag

2 D6 Combat Dice and 2 D10 Noise Dice

5 Plastic Card Holders

 (Inventories)

6 Colored Plastic Rings

GAME elements                                                                                                          

<<<  game elements  >>>

Cards:

2 Room Sheets

60 Action Cards (10 per Character)

8 Intruder Weakness Cards

Markers and tokens:

18 Status Markers

50 Ammo / Injury Markers

18 Objective Cards 

(9 Personal and 9 Corporate)

8 Coordinates Cards

30 Noise Markers

8 Fire Markers

12 Door Tokens

8 Malfunction Markers

30 Yellow (Technical) Item Cards

27 Contamination Cards

Note: Although they share a common back 

with the action cards, they should form 

a separate deck.

6 Engine Tokens (3 Working, 3 Damaged)

2 Five 

Injury Tokens

20 Intruder Attack Cards

30 Red (Military) Item Cards

4 Escape Pod Tokens

8 Intruder Egg Tokens

16 Serious Wound Cards

12 Blue (Crafted) Item Cards

30 Green (Medical) Item Cards

Advanced mode
components: 

20 Exploration Tokens

27 Intruder Tokens 

(8 Larvae, 12 Adult Intruders, 

3 Creeper, 2 Breeder, 

1 Queen, 1 Blank)

20 Event Cards

6 Character Starting Item (Weapon) Cards

1 Cardboard Box Holder

 

This component is not used in the game. 

1 Blue Character Corpse Token
4 Red Character Corpse Tokens

1 First Player Token

8 Intruder Carcass Tokens

1 Depressurisation Token

5 Help Cards

12 Character Quest Item Cards

6 Character Draft Cards

 

 

 

7 Solo / Coop Objective Cards
This component is not used 

in the basic game! 

10 Intruder Action Cards

This component is not used 

in the basic game! 

other

components: 

10 Promo Cards

This component is not used 

in the game. 

3

Game overview

Nemesis is a semi-cooperative game where you 
and your crewmates must survive on a ship in-
fested with hostile organisms.
To win the game, you will have to complete one 
of the two objectives dealt to you at the start of 
the game and get back to Earth in one piece. You 
will find many obstacles on your way: swarms 
of Intruders (the name given to the alien organ-
isms by the ship AI), the poor physical condition 
of the ship, the other players that will have their 
own agendas and, sometimes, just cruel fate.
The gameplay of Nemesis is designed to be full of 
climatic moments which, hopefully, you will find 
rewarding even when your best plans are ruined 
and your character meets a terrible fate.

CrEDITS

Game DESIGN: Adam Kwapiński 

Development: Michał Oracz, Marcin Świerkot, Paweł Samborski, 

Michał Siekierski, Rebel team

Tests: Paweł Samborski, Michał Siekierski, Łukasz Krawiec, 

Franciszek Ostojski, Krzysztof Belczyk, Paweł Czochra

Rulebook: Michał Oracz, Paweł Samborski, Krzysztof Piskorski, 

Marcin Świerkot, Hervé Daubet 

Illustrations: Piotr Foksowicz, Ewa Labak, Patryk Jędraszek, 

Andrzej Półtoranos 

Graphic design: Adrian Radziun, Andrzej Półtoranos, Michał Oracz 

3D models: Jędrzej Chomicki, Jakub Ziółkowski, Piotr Gacek, 

Mateusz Modzelewski

Art Direction: Marcin Świerkot

Thanks: Christi Kropf, Shaun Melville, Frank Calcagno, Kevin Alford, 
Kris Ardianto, Michael Pollard, Joe Cook, Jon Farrell, Sean O’Grady, 
Tony Janota, Bryan Harpel, Kenneth Minchin, Christopher Rindfleisch, 

Dustin Crenshaw, Johannes Janson, Christoffer Lundberg, Garth Humphreys, 
Marco Corbella, Bobby Skeens, Dan Thorpe, Kieran Berry, Alex Jansen, Egor, 

Joeri Penasse, John Navarrete, Nikola Vlahović, Michael French.
Special thanks to Ken Cunningham and Jordan Luminais.

Special thanks to all Kickstarter backers who helped us make this game a reality.

Thank you to all people who tested this game during the long years of 
its making, and to all of the people who joined us for blind tests in ArBar 

 
 
 

and played the game on Tabletop Simulator.

Testers: Michał Misztal, Paweł Panek, Kacper Ziatkowski, 

Piotr Frąk, Mateusz Gospodarczyk, Martyna Machnica, Oriana Młynarska, 

Anna Sadurska-Czochra, Paweł Kieroń, Maks Kieroń, Michał Łysiak, Kacper Mendrek, 

Robert Neć, Michał Sieńko, Barbara Sanecka-Sieńko, Jakub Polkowski, 

Anna Polkowska, Piotr Żuchowski, Marta Batorczak-Żuchowska, Iga W. Grygiel, 

Błażej Kubacki, Robert Arciszewski, Paweł Kaczmarek, Barbara Kaczmarek, 

Łukasz Poręba, Jakub Kurek, Paweł Kurnatowski, Tomasz Dobosz, Michał Ozon, 

Paweł Szewczuk, Piotr Jasik, Klaudia Jasik, Wojciech Mikołajczak, Paweł Adamczuk, 

Tomasz Łapiński, Jakub Wasilewski, Michał Solan, Marcin Gleń, Joanna Gleń, 
Tomasz Bylina, Piotr Wołoszun, Łukasz Hapka, Jakub Mróz, Kamil Kołodziej, 

Cezary Sidor, Piotr Kątnik, Rafał Szczepkowski, Artur Jedliński, Maciej Jesionowski, 
Andrzej Aftarczuk, Wojciech Ingielewicz, Krzysztof Szafrański, Andrzej Olejarczyk, 

Piotr Widerski, Mateusz Żbikowski, Małgorzata Boryczka

English Translation: Krzysztof Piskorski, Paweł Samborski
Proofreading: Hervé Daubet, Dan Morley, Tabletop Polish,

with the invaluable help of our backers.

AuTHor's WorD

Five years. Five years have passed since the winter of 2013, when I 
built my first Nemesis prototype. The game you are holding in your 
hands barely looks like its original version. In the years that followed, 
the project evolved and changed on a regular basis – sometimes go-
ing back to its roots, only to drastically alter them some time later. 
The one thing that remained constant was the core concept: recre-
ating  the  experience  of  the  claustrophobic,  paranoid  horror  Sci-Fi 
classics as closely as possible. 

Even  though  only  my  name  appears  on  the  box,  the  full  list  of 
people who contributed to this game at the various stages of its 
production would likely take several pages – the team of my old 
publishing company, the people at Rebel Publishing that took over 
the project, and finally, the team at Awaken Realms that finished 
the development of the game and handled its crowdfunding.

Regardless of his position at Awaken Realms, I would also like to 
personally  thank  Marcin  Świerkot,  not  only  as  a  publisher  or  for 
his skills at handling impressive Kickstarter campaigns. For me, it 
is obvious that Nemesis owes Marcin a great part of its incredible 
success, and I also want to thank him for his constant feedback and 
for  convincing  me  to  adopt  several  new  concepts  (which,  believe 
me, wasn’t easy).

Nemesis also had a humongous group of testers. At the start, I only 
played it with a few close friends, but, with each iteration of the proj-
ect, the team grew until it reached truly epic proportions – especially 
after  the  game  had  been  ported  to  Tabletop  Simulator  (thanks  to 
the efforts of Ken Cunningham, Steven Becker, David Werner, Ste-
fano Trivellato, Adam Grinder and Luca Cornaggia). I didn’t have the 
chance to meet every one of our many testers in person, but I wanted 
them to know that it was their feedback that helped me through the 
stages of this project, and allowed me to keep my enthusiasm intact 
throughout these five long years of development.

I also owe some special thanks to Michał Oracz, whom I met during 
the Nemesis project. The depth of his involvement in all aspects of 
this game is simply amazing, and I can only say how lucky I was to 
meet a person with such skills and experience.

To wrap things up, I’d like to thank Iga, who is probably the only 
person to remember the true beginning of this project, as she was 
the one who inspired me to create it five years ago, on a cold winter’s 
evening.

My final thanks go to everyone who supported this game on Kick-
starter, trusting both me and Awaken Realms. I hope Nemesis will 
repay you with many thrills and unforgettable hours spent over the 
board. And I hope that – at least every now and then – your journey 
will end with a safe trip back to Earth…

4

Game Introduction                                                                                 
Welcome aboard! This introductory story is designed 

to familiarize you with the flow of a standard game 
and  to  give  you  an  overview  of  the  essential  Nemesis 
rules. All game terms, items, characters and board loca-
tions are written in bold to make them more distinguish-
able. We hope that this story will make reading these rules 
easier and more enjoyable. 
  We hope that, after some games of Nemesis, you will 
have your own stories to tell! 

It  started  like  the  countless  times  before – 
waking up in a cold fog within the Hibernatorium, at the very center 
of the ship. As usual, we were suffering from temporary amnesia due 
to FTL travel and hibernation. We knew our names and we had some 
basic memories, but we didn’t remember clearly where we were or 
what we were supposed to do. The layout of the ship felt unfamiliar. 
We  knew  that  somewhere  at  the  stern,  there  were  three  Engines; 
and somewhere in the bow section, there was a Bridge. We were 
also conditioned to remember the location of the two Escape Pods, 
just in case something went really wrong. The rest was blurry. But 
this time, amnesia was not our only problem – one of our comrades 
was lying in his pod with a gaping hole in his chest. Emergency lights 
were flashing all over the place. 
 
As the Captain, I knew we had to avoid panic, follow the procedures, 
inspect the ship, and check if the engines were operational, as we 
needed at least 2 of them to continue our trip. We also had to check 
the coordinates to make sure the ship was still heading to Earth. 
 
We had all watched enough horror movies to know we needed some 
Weapons.  Luckily,  our  lockers  were  right  there,  with  some  basic 
gear and Items we needed to perform our assigned jobs (although 
not all of them were functional). Between my 6-shooter and other 
personal items, I also found something else – a letter with special 
orders from my employer. Some time ago, our ship’s Mechanic had 
dug up some dirt on the corporation and claimed he would testify 
once he got back to Earth. The company made it clear they didn’t 
want him to come back. At any cost.
 
I  knew  many  of  my  crew  members  had  their  own  secret  agendas 
and their own Corporate Objectives. I couldn’t trust them. We split 
into two groups – the Pilot and I were to check the bridge, while the 
Mechanic and the Scientist went to the aft section, where the Engine 
Rooms were located. 
 
I moved forward, navigating the Corridor carefully. When I en-
tered the next room, I heard a very strange Noise coming from the 
bow of the ship. Then, the Door slammed right behind me. System 
malfunction! So much for staying together… 
 
I looked around – I was in a section containing the crew’s 
Cabins. I decided to search this place for any useful items, finding  
a  Fire  Extinguisher  and  a  Medkit.  I  immediately  felt  a  bit  safer. 
There was nothing more here, so I decided to move forward. This 
is when things went from bad to worse. First, I stepped into some 
green  Slime  that  covered  my  legs  and  wouldn’t  come  off.  Then,  
I heard that noise again.
 
Suddenly, a monstrous Larva jumped right at me from the dark. 
By the look of its claws and mandibles, I was quite certain that this 
thing would do something horrible to me if I didn’t act fast. So, I kept 

on shooting at the the thing until it stopped twitching, spending most 
of my Ammo in the process.
 
At this point, I knew something crazy was going on. I had to decide 
if I wanted to fulfill the task the company had given me or if I should 
follow my Personal Objective. I realized that it wasn’t the best mo-
ment to bring down a crewmate – the future of mankind could be at 
hand! Instead of killing the Mechanic, I decided I should send a Sig-
nal using our Communications Room to warn Earth of the situation. 
Then, I would examine one of the creatures in the Lab, trying to get 
as much information as possible, before leaving this doomed ship. 
I was taking a short Rest to settle my nerves 
when I heard those creepy noises again. Nothing came at me this 
time,  though.  Moving  to  the  next  room,  I  entered  the  Generator, 
where I reunited with our Pilot. It was the only place where we could 
activate the ship’s Self-Destruct sequence. Considering what I had 
just seen, it didn’t sound like a bad idea… Unfortunately, the room 
was  Damaged,  and  we  would  need  to  fix  it  first.  We  decided  the 
Mechanic was best suited for this task.
 
I had a conversation with the pilot, who confirmed what I had been 
fearing all along – there was more than a single Larva. On her way 
here, she ran into an Adult specimen that managed to hit her. Fortu-
nately, it was just a Light Wound, but I secretly feared that she might 
have been Infected. And, since this Intruder was now lurking behind 
us, we could not go back to the Hibernatorium.
 
We spent the next few minutes moving cautiously from one room 
to another, trying to salvage what we could – I managed to Craft a 
makeshift Flamethrower, using some Chemicals and Tools. Every 
step of the way, we heard more and more noises converging in our 
direction. 
 
Several of the rooms we checked had been damaged, and one was 
on Fire. Things weren’t looking good. I knew the ship could only take 
so much stress before it would explode. With that in mind, we spent 
some time fixing the Hatch Control System to unlock our two Escape 
Pods – we were one step closer from escaping this death trap. 
 
At this point, we spread out. The Pilot went to the 
Bridge, and I went to send the Signal. I entered my login into the 
comms  console  and  began  my  transmission  when  an  explosion 
threw  me  against  the  opposite  wall.  Even  stunned  by  the  blast,  
I understood that someone had just tried to kill me. I didn’t have to 
wait long for the culprit – a few seconds later, the Mechanic stormed 
into the room, a burning Molotov Cocktail in his greasy hand. 
 
He couldn’t shoot me or harm me directly – thanks to anti-aggres-
sion implants all space crews had in their brains to prevent violence 
or mutiny. However, indirect weapons were one of the ways to cheat 
the implant. There was just one thing he didn’t know. As a Captain, 
I could use the same implant to force him to follow a single order. 
 
I ordered the Mechanic to scout one of the connected rooms. Soon 
I heard the sound I had been hoping for. One of the Intruders came 
out of the Technical Corridors and jumped at the poor fool. Just to 
be sure neither of them would come out of it alive, I threw a Grenade 
in the corridor.
 
I inspected my Wounds – my leg was badly hurt. I Dressed it, and 
was able to move again, but I also knew this was a temporary mea-
sure, intending to Heal the damage at the first opportunity.

Despite the pain, I managed to reach the Bridge, destroying 
a Locked Door along the way. There, I found the Pilot and told her 
about the Mechanic’s attack. She was in too much of a hurry to care. 
She had just set the jump coordinates for Earth. We didn’t know if 
enough engines were working, but she was willing to take the risk. 
This left us little time to get back to the Hibernatorium. There were 
only a few minutes left before the Jump, and everyone outside of  
a stasis pod at that moment would be atomized by the extreme ac-
celeration.
 
I  told  her  to  lead  the  way,  hoping  I’d  get  the  chance  to  swing  by 
the Lab and complete my own objective. But something didn’t feel 
right... Maybe it was the way she acted or talked? I couldn’t tell, but 
as the Captain, I had learned not to ignore my hunch. 
 
Fortunately, I had a Log Key that could give me full access 
to one crew member’s account – I chose to check the Pilot’s cor-
respondence. What I found was shocking. She intended to take the 
ship to some secret base on Mars, where an organization I’d never 
heard of before was planning to use the Intruders for some unknown 
dark purpose.
 
What followed was pure hell. Wounded, surrounded 
by hostile life forms and without allies, I had to use every trick in 
my  book  to  stay  alive.  When  an  Adult  Intruder  stood  in  my  way,  
I used up all the fuel in my flamethrower trying to take it down, but 
it wasn’t enough. It managed to sink its slobbering mandibles in my 
shoulder. I took out the revolver and, with the last bullet I was saving 
for myself, I blew its head off.
 
I was about to lose consciousness from the Bleeding, when our Sci-
entist stumbled upon me. He was coming from the Lab, where he 
had analyzed one of the Intruder Carcasses, and discovered a Weak-
ness of their species. Turns out we shared a common objective!
 
He  helped  me  up,  and  we  decided  to  make  a  run  for  it  together. 
Unfortunately, he didn’t make it very far. I had to leave him behind 
when he was caught by an enormous Breeder. It was a hard call, but 
someone had to warn Earth after all! 
 
Finally,  I  reached  the  Evacuation  Hatch  –  but  the  way  was 
blocked. There she was, waiting for me. A terrifying beast, the big-
gest of her kind. The Queen. I had only one thing left: a small fire 
extinguisher I had been carrying all along. In desperation, I fired it 
upon her. 
 
To  my  utter  amazement,  it  worked!  She  retreated,  giving  me  just 
enough time to enter the Escape Pod and launch it in a hurry.
 
I was out. I survived. 
 
Or at least I thought I had… I can feel something moving inside me. 
I don’t know how much time I have left. I am leaving this message in 
case someone finds this forsaken pod.
 
Destroy my body. Do not examine these creatures. Do not try to har-
ness them in any way.
 
If you want humanity to survive – leave them and never come back. 

5

GAME SETup: steps 1-13, board setup                                           

The rest of the Intruder tokens are placed next to the board – they 

Then, add 1 additional Adult Intruder token for each player taking 

 
part in the game. 
 
will be used during play.
  Place the Intruder Carcass tokens next to the board as well – 
they will mark Intruders killed later in the game.

11]  Shuffle  and  place  the  following  decks  face  down  next  to  the 
board:  3  Items  (each  with  its  own  color),  Event,  Intruder  Attack, 
Contamination and Serious Wound decks.
  Place the Crafted Item deck next to the 3 Item decks.
  Place the Scanner next to the Contamination deck.
 
Put all Intruder Action cards and all Solo / Coop Objective cards back 
in	the	box	–	these	two	decks	are	only	used	in	advanced	game	modes	–	see	
Game	Modes,	page	27.

– Fire markers, 
– Malfunction markers,
– Noise markers,
– Ammo / Injury markers,
– Status markers (used as Light Wounds / Slime / Signal / Self-

12] Place the other markers, tokens and dice next to the board: 
 
 
 
 
 
Destruct / Time / Destination markers),
 
 
 
 
 

– Door tokens,
– Red Character Corpse tokens,
– 2 Combat dice,
– 2 Noise dice,
– First Player token.

13] Place 1 Status marker on the green space of the Time Track. 
This is the Time marker.

The board setup is now complete! Now proceed to the crew setup, 
detailed on page 8.

intruder symbols: 

       

 

  

LARVA

CREEPER

 

 

ADULT 

 

 

    

   

     

BREEDER

   

     

 QUEEN

 

  

 

1] Place the board on the table. Use the basic side of the board as 
shown in the picture.

Note: The basic side of the board is marked by a red arrow 
symbol in its upper left corner.

2]  Shuffle  all  Room  “2”  tiles  without  looking  at  their  fronts  and 
randomly place (face down) one Room “2” tile on each of the Room 
slots marked with a “2” on the board.
Put	all	remaining	Room	“2”	tiles	back	in	the	box.
	
	
Note:	You	will	not	use	all	available	Room	“2”	tiles	each	game,	as	there	
are	more	tiles	than	slots	on	the	board.	Players	never	know	exactly	which	
Rooms are on the ship.
	
their contents.

Note:	When	putting	any	components	back	in	the	box,	avoid	looking	at	

3] Then, use the same method to place all Room “1” tiles on the 
Room slots marked with a “1”.

4]  Take  the  Exploration  tokens,  shuffle  them  (without  looking  at 
their  fronts)  and  place  one  token  at  random  (face  down)  on  each 
Room tile.
	

Put	all	remaining	Exploration	tokens	back	in	the	box.

5] Take the Coordinates cards and place one randomly (face down) 
on its space next to the Cockpit.
	

Put	all	remaining	Coordinates	cards	back	in	the	box.

6] Place 1 Status marker on the “B” space of the Destination Track. 
This is the Destination marker.

– 1–2 players: 2 Escape Pods,
 3–4 players: 3 Escape Pods,
– 5 players: 4 Escape Pods.

7] Take the corresponding number of randomly chosen Escape Pod 
tokens: 
 
 –
 
  Place  the  lowest-numbered  Escape  Pod  in  Section  “A”,  then 
place the next (in numerical order) Escape Pod in Section “B”. Place 
the other Escape Pods, alternating between “A” and “B”.
 
face up.
	

Escape  Pod  tokens  should  be  placed  with  their  “Locked”  side 

Put	all	remaining	Escape	Pod	tokens	back	in	the	box.

8] Take both Engine tokens marked with the number “1” (1 Damaged 
and 1 Working) and shuffle them face down. Place them on the cor-
responding Engine “1” slot on the board, one atop the other, and face 
down. The top Engine token indicates the true status of the Engine. 
  Repeat this step for Engine tokens “2” and “3”. 
 
kens.	They	shouldn’t	know	if	the	Engines	are	working	or	not.	

Important: Make sure that the players do not see the fronts of the to-

9] Take the Intruder board, put it next to the board and place in the 
corresponding slots:
 
 
  Weakness cards are kept hidden until discovered. Put all remaining Weak-
ness	cards	back	in	the	box,	unseen.	

– 5 Egg tokens,
– 3 random Weakness cards, placed face down.

10]  Take  the  Intruder  bag  and  put  the  following  Intruder  tokens 
inside: 1 Blank, 4 Larvae, 1 Creeper, 1 Queen, 3 Adults.

6

<<<  BoArD setup  >>>

7

GAME SETup: steps 14-20, CrEW SETup                                              

14] Take as many Help cards as there are players and deal one to 
each player at random. These cards determine the order of choosing 
Characters (Step 17). If there are 3 players, take the cards with the 
number 1–3. If there are 4 players, take cards 1–4, etc.
 
The number shown on the Help card and Inventory is the Player 
Number – it’s not only important for choosing Characters, but also 
for some Objectives.
	
	 More	on	Objectives	–	see	page	12.

Put	all	remaining	Help	cards	back	in	the	box.

15] Each player gets 1 plastic Inventory card holder with the same 
number as their Help card. It is used to keep your Item cards hidden 
during the game.
 
This is your Inventory, the place where you store all your non-Heavy 
Items; so you know what you have, while the other players may only guess.

16] Remove from both Objective decks (Corporate and Personal) 
all cards showing a number of players higher than the number of 
players taking part in the game.
  Shuffle these two decks separately and deal each player 1 card 
from the Corporate Objectives deck and 1 card from the Personal 
Objectives deck. Each player must keep the contents of their Objec-
tive cards hidden from the other players!
	
 
of your two Objectives and work on completing the other.
	 More	on	First	Encounter	–	see	page	12.

Put	all	remaining	Objective	cards	back	in	the	box.
The first time an Intruder enters the game, you will have to discard one 

	
Hint:	 There’s	 a	 good	 reason	 why	 the	 players	 receive	 their	 Objectives	
before Character drafts! Knowing your Objective, you can pick a Character 
that has the best chance to fulfill it.

17] Shuffle all the Character draft cards. The players choose their 
Characters in the following order: Player 1 takes 2 random Character 
draft cards, reveals them, chooses 1 and shuffles the other back into 
the Character draft deck. Next, Player 2 chooses their Character the 
same way, then Player 3, etc.
  A player may only control the Character whose card they have 
chosen during the draft.
	
as they will no longer be used.

After	the	draft,	put	all	remaining	Character	draft	cards	back	in	the	box,	

Place your Character miniature in a colored plastic ring.

18] Each player takes the following components: 
  A) The Character board of the Character chosen during the draft.
  B) The miniature of their Character and places it in the Hiberna-
torium.
 
  C) The Action cards deck of their Character, shuffles it and plac-
es it on the left side of their Character board, face down.
  D)  The  Starting  Item  card  (Weapon)  of  their  Character  and 
places  it  in  one  of  the  two  Hand  slots  on  their  Character  board.  
Afterwards, place a number of Ammo markers equal to that Weap-
on’s Ammo capacity on the Weapon card.
  E) The 2 Quest Item cards of their Character and places them, 
horizontal side up, next to their Character board. Those items are 

Put	all	remaining	Character	boards	back	in	the	box,	as	they	will	no	lon-

NOT active at the start of the game, but players can perform mini-
quests to unlock them during the game.
	
ger be used.
  F) Leave this spot for the Action discard pile – this is where your 
used Action cards (and Contamination cards) will go.

19] Player 1 gets the First Player token.

20] Place the blue Character Corpse token in the Hibernatorium.  
It represents the body of a poor sod lying in a pool of blood.
  During the game, treat this token as a Character Corpse Object.
 

8

<<<  board description  >>>

Discard piles

Leave an empty space for a discard pile next 
to  each  of  the  following  decks:  Items,  Event, 
Intruder Attack and Serious Wounds.
	
Note:	There’s	a	special	spot	for	the	Action	dis-
card pile, marked on each of the Character boards. 
Contamination	cards	go	to	the	player’s	Action	dis-
card pile.
  All the above cards are discarded, face up, 
after use.

All markers are discarded to the appropriate pile.

Important:	During	Movement,	Special	Rooms	are	treated	as	already	explored	Rooms.

BoArD DESCrIpTIoN

1 – Hibernatorium (Special Room)
2 – Cockpit (Special Room)
3 – Coordinates card space
4 – Destination Track
5 – Engine 01, Engine 02, Engine 03 (Special Rooms)
	
6 – Escape Pod spaces
7 – Example of explored Rooms
8 – Example of unexplored Rooms
9 – Example of Technical Corridors Entrances
10 – Technical Corridors space
11 – Time Track
12 – Self-Destruct Track
13 – Examples of Item Counters
14 – Examples of Corridors
15 – Examples of Corridor Numbers
16 – Example of Room Number

9

FLoW oF THE GAME                                           
T he game is played over a series of consecutive turns, and ends 

when any of the end game conditions are met.

	 More	on	Player	Goals	and	End	of	the	Game	–	see	page	11.

<<<  basic rules  >>>

II: EvENT pHASE                 

Resolve the following steps:

5: TIME TrACK
Move the Time marker on the Time Track 1 space to the right.
 
1 space to the right on its Track. 

If  the  Self-Destruct  sequence  is  active,  also  move  its  marker  

6: INTruDEr ATTACK
Each Intruder in the same room as a Character performs an Attack.
	 More	on	Intruder	Attack	–	see	Combat,	page	18.

7: FIrE DAMAGE
Each Intruder in the same Room as a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury.
	 More	on	Intruder	Injuries	–	see	Combat,	pages	18–20.
	 More	on	Fire	–	see	page	17.

8: rESoLvE EvENT CArD
Draw and resolve 1 Event card:

intruder movement – All Intruders sharing the Intrud-
 
er symbol shown on the Event card (and are NOT in a Room with 
any Characters) move to a neighboring Room through the Corridor 
matching the number on the Event card.
	 More	on	Corridors	and	Rooms	–	see	page	14.

 
If the number indicates a Technical Corridor, remove that Intrud-
er miniature from the board and put a random Intruder token of the 
same type into the Intruder bag. If the number indicates a hallway 
with a Door, the Intruder does not move. The Door is destroyed.
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.

EvENT  EFFECT  –  After  the  Intruder  movement  step,  re-

 
solve the Effect described on the Event card.
  After resolving the Event card, discard it to the Event discard pile 
(unless stated otherwise). In the rare case the Event deck runs out 
of cards, shuffle the discarded Event cards – they become the new 
Event deck.

9: INTruDEr BAG DEvELoPMENT
Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag. 
 

The Effect depends on the drawn token:

  Larva – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and add 
1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.

  Creeper – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and 
add 1 Breeder token to the Intruder bag.

   Adult – All players roll for Noise in turn order. 

If a player’s Character is in Combat with an Intruder, 

this player does not perform a Noise roll.

Return the Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
More	on	Noise	roll	–	see	page	15.

Breeder – All players roll for Noise in turn order. 

If a player’s Character is in Combat with an Intruder, 

this player does not perform a Noise roll.

Return the Breeder token to the Intruder bag.

 queen – If there are any Characters in the Nest Room, 
place  the  Queen  miniature  in  that  Room  and  resolve  an 
Encounter.

More	on	Encounters	–	see	page	18.
If there are no Characters in the Nest (or its location 
has  not  been  discovered  yet),  add  an  additional  Intruder 
Egg token to the Intruder board.

Return the Queen token to the Intruder bag.

 Blank – Add 1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.  
If there are no Adult Intruder tokens available, nothing hap-
pens. 

Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag.

10: end of round
Start a new round.
The round ends after the Intruder bag development step has been fully 
 
resolved. All Encounters, Surprise Attacks, etc. must have been played out. 
After which, a new round starts with the Player Phase and all players draw 
their Action cards.

round orDEr
Each round is split into two consecutive Phases: 
 
 

I: Player Phase,
II: Event Phase.

I: pLAYEr pHASE                 

Resolve the following steps:

1: DrAW ACTIoN CArDS
At the start of each Player Phase, all players draw cards from their 
Action deck until they have a hand size of 5 cards.
If the game (at any time) requires you to draw a card and add it 
 
to your hand, and your Action deck is empty, shuffle all the cards in 
your discard pile – these will form your new Action deck. Then, draw 
the required number of cards.

2: FIrST pLAYEr ToKEN
After all the Players have drawn their Action cards, the player with 
the First Player token passes it to the player on their left.
Note: In the first turn of the game, do not pass the First Player token.
 
Each time players are required to do anything in order, start with 
 
the player with the First Player token, and then continue with each 
player in clockwise order.

If a player performs only 1 Action instead of the required two, 

If  a  player  cannot  perform  any  Actions,  or  chooses  to  take  no 

3: pLAYEr turns
Starting with the first player and going clockwise, each player per-
forms a turn of 2 Actions.
 
Actions on their turn, they must pass.
 
their second action is to pass.
  Any player who passes cannot perform ANY Actions for the re-
mainder of the Phase.
  When  a  player  passes,  they  may  discard  any  number  of  cards 
from their hand to their discard piles.
	 When	you	pass,	flip	your	Help	card	to	the	“Pass”	side	to	indicate	this.
 
they	suffer	1	Light	Wound	–	see	Fire	marker,	page	17.
	

Note: When a Character ends their turn in a Room with a Fire marker, 

The	available	Actions	are	described	in	detail	later	–	see	Actions,	page	12.

4: continue player turns
After each player has performed their 2 Actions of step 3 (or passed 
their turn), another series of turns takes place. Continue to repeat 
step 3 until all players have passed.
  Only after each player has passed should the game move to the 
Event Phase.

10

pLAYEr GoALS AND END oF THE GAME

<<<  basic rules  >>>

I f one of the conditions above is met and at least 1 Character sur-

vived (either hibernating in the Hibernatorium or evacuated in an 

Escape Pod), go to the Victory Check step.

vICTorY CHECK                 

pLAYEr GoALS                 

To consider a player a winner, they must meet two conditions:
1) Fulfill their objective, detailed on the Objective card 

A  game  of  Nemesis  may  result  in  multiple  winners,  but  it  is  not  
a cooperative game – while the players can (and should, to some de-
gree) cooperate, each player has their own Objective to fulfill. Other 
players achieving their goals are irrelevant to your own victory.
 
 
chosen by the player.
2) Survive – meaning one of these two options: [1] hibernate 
 
their Character in the Hibernatorium with the ship still functioning 
and jumping to Earth, OR [2] use one of the Escape Pods to evacuate 
from the ship.
 
Important:  Some  Objective  cards  may  ask  a  Character  to  change  the 
ship’s	destination	–	for	instance,	the	ship	must	be	redirected	to	Mars	in-
stead of going back to Earth.
	 More	on	Hibernatorium	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
	 More	on	Escape	Pods	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
	 More	on	Coordinates	–	see	Cockpit,	Room	sheet,	page	26.

END oF THE GAME                 

The game ends when one of the following conditions is met:

The Time marker reaches the final red space of the Time Track 
–  the  ship  jumps  into  hyperspace  immediately.  All  characters  on 
board who are not in hibernation die from the massive g-force.
 
Important: Instant death due to hyperjump does not apply to the Intrud-
ers, so if your Objective was to kill the Queen, a Breeder or to destroy the 
Nest, your target is unharmed, and you fail your mission. 

The  Self-Destruct  marker  reaches  the  final  red  space  of  the 
Self-Destruct Track (the one with “skull” symbol), OR you are in-
structed to place a 9th Fire marker or a 9th Malfunction marker – the 
ship explodes / loses hull integrity and all the Characters on board 
(both awake and hibernating) die.
 
and the Nest (this may be important for some Objectives).
	 More	on	Self-Destruct	–	see	Generator,	Room	sheet,	page	24.

Everything else on board the ship also dies, including Intruders 

The  last  alive,  not  hibernating  Character  on  board  the  ship 
dies, hibernates or uses an Escape Pod – meaning there is nothing 
more to do on the ship.
 
If the Self-Destruct sequence was active, move its marker to the final 
red space of the Self-Destruct Track. If not, move the Time marker to the 
final red space of the Time Track. In both cases, resolve the Effects of those 
markers as described above.

1) ENGINES CHECK:                                

Everything  else  on  board  also  dies,  including  all  the  Intruders 

If 2 or 3 of the top Engine tokens have a Damaged status, the ship 

If the ship survived up to this moment, its Engines are checked. Re-
veal all the top Engine tokens of the three Engines.
 
explodes and all the hibernating Characters die.
 
(this may be important for some Objectives).
 
Note:  A  Malfunction  marker  in  the  Engine  Room  only  disables  that 
Room Action. If the Engine has a Working status, it does not count as Dam-
aged, regardless of the mentioned Malfunction marker.
	 More	on	Engines	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.

3) CoNTAMINATIoN CHECK:                                

Each  living  Character  (either  asleep  in  the  Hibernatorium  or  eva-
cuated in an Escape Pod) checks their Contamination cards.
  A) The player uses the Scanner to check all the Contamination 
cards in their Action deck, discard pile and hand.
  B) If there is at least 1 “INFECTED” card – or Larva on their player 
board – that player shuffles all their cards (both Action and Contami-
nation) to create a new Action deck, then draws the top 4 cards. If 
there is at least 1 Contamination card (Infected or not), the Character 
dies. If there are none, they are lucky to survive.
	
resolves step B.
	 More	on	Scanning	Contamination	cards	–	see	page	20.

If	there	is	a	Larva	on	the	Character’s	board,	the	player	skips	step	A	and	

2) CoorDINATES CHECK:                                

If the ship is not headed toward Earth, all Characters asleep in the 

If the ship survived up to this moment, reveal the Coordinates card 
and check the current space of the Destination marker.
 
Hibernatorium die.
The  Quarantine  Objective,  which  requires  another  destination  for  the 
 
jump	(Mars),	is	the	only	exception	to	this	rule.	Any	Character	with	this	Ob-
jective	does	not	die	if	they	are	asleep	in	the	Hibernatorium	and	the	ship’s	
destination is Mars.
 
apply to the Intruders!
 
	 More	on	Coordinates	–	see	Cockpit,	Room	sheet,	page	26.

Important: Instant death due to a destination other than Earth does not 

Note: In this case, although the Characters die, the ship is not destroyed.

4) oBJECTIvE CHECK:                                

 
Each player whose Character is still alive at this step must check 
if they accomplished their chosen Objective. They all reveal their Ob-
jective card to the other players and check if they have met all the 
requirements.

Ending the game 

before the other players
If  any  Character  uses  an  Escape  Pod,  hibernates  or  dies, 
then they can no longer actively participate in the game, and 
can only spectate. At the end of the game, the Characters 
that are still alive determine if all their Objectives have been 
met and thus if they have won or not.
 
The player whose Character is the first to die may continue the 
game as an Intruder –	see	Game	Modes,	Playing	as	an	Intruder,	
page	27.

11

ACTIoNS                                                                         
d uring each of their turns, players can perform various Actions. 

There are 4 groups of Actions in the game: 

CrITICAL

GAMEpLAY MoMENTS

During the game, there are four critical moments that are not tied to 
any specific round, but are triggered under certain conditions:
 
 
 
 

The First Encounter with an Intruder.
The first Character that dies.
The Hibernation chambers open.
The Self-Destruct sequence cannot be deactivated.

FIrST ENCouNTEr                                

The first time a crew member encounters 
an Intruder, everyone has to make a choice 
– either follow Corporate Objectives, 
or fulfill their Personal Objectives.

  When the first Intruder miniature (of any type) appears on the 
board, the situation changes drastically. Each player immediately 
chooses 1 of their 2 Objective cards. The one that wasn’t chosen 
is removed from the game face down (without showing it to the 
other players). Then, the encounter that triggered this procedure is 
resolved and the game continues normally.
 
From now on, each player has only 1 Objective left and they must work 
toward its completion. It must still be kept secret from the other players.
Note: Players cannot look at the removed Objective cards of the other players! 
 
 
Note: Eggs are not Intruders. 
	 More	on	Encounters	–	see	Encounter	and	Combat,	page	18.

FIrST DEAD CHArACTEr                                

The  first  time  a  Character  (of  any  player)  dies,  the  ship’s  AI 
immediately starts emergency procedures:
  All Escape Pods are automatically unlocked (flip their tokens to 
the Unlocked side). 
 
(for	example,	using	the	Hatch	Control	System	Room	Action).
	 More	on	Escape	Pods	and	Hatch	Control	System	Room	–	see	Room	
sheet,	pages	25	and	26.
	

For the rest of the game they may be locked (and unlocked) normally 

In	addition,	the	first	dead	Character	may	play	as	the	Intruder	–	see	page	27.

Hibernation chambers                                   

When  the  Time  Track  reaches  any  blue  space,  the  Hibernation 
chambers open. Characters CANNOT enter them before that moment. 

Self-destruct sequence                                     

When the Self-Destruct Track reaches any yellow space, all Escape 
Pods  are  automatically  Unlocked  and  the  Characters  can  no  longer 
stop the Self-Destruct sequence.

12

objectiveS

sequence	–	see	End	of	the	Game,	page	15.

Since completing most of the Objectives requires some knowledge of the 
game (for example, Room actions, rules for destroying the ship, Escape 
Pods functionality, etc.), you’ll find some tips below that may help begin-
ner players to find the appropriate sections in the Manual.
 
Important: No matter which Objective you choose, your Character must 
survive the game! They must either get into an Escape Pod and launch it, or 
hibernate.
player X's Character cannot survive
The Character of the indicated player cannot be classified as alive at the 
end of the game. You do not need to kill them with any of your Actions 
– they simply must be dead. You might want to trap this Character in a 
Room on Fire or with an Intruder. Maybe you could seek another player’s 
help?
You can also escape the ship by using the Escape Pods, abandoning 
 
the rest of the crew on board with Fire, Malfunctions, Damaged Engines, 
Self-Destruct sequence or Coordinates leading to nowhere and hope that 
everybody dies or that the ship explodes.
	 More	on	Hibernatorium	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
	 More	on	Escape	Pods	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
  More on Fire, Malfunction, Damaged Engines and Self-Destruct 
	
	 More	on	Fire	markers	–	see	page	17.
	 More	on	Malfunction	markers	–	see	page	17.
	 More	on	Engines	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
	 More	on	Self-Destruct	sequence	–	see	Generator,	Room	sheet,	page	24.
Your Character is the only survivor
No Character but yours may survive the game.
Sending the Signal
You  need  to  locate  the  Comms  Room  and  perform  its  Room  Action. 
There is always a Comms Room on board – look for the Rooms with the 
number “1” on their back.
	 More	on	Comms	Room	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.
the ship must reach Earth / Mars
The ship will reach its destination if the right Coordinates have been set 
in the Cockpit and if at least two of its three Engines are still functional 
(Working status).
  More	on	Coordinates	and	Cockpit	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
	 More	on	Damaged	Engines	–	see	End	of	the	Game,	page	11.
	 More	on	Engines	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.
Discover a Weakness
Weaknesses can be discovered by bringing an Object to the Laboratory 
and by performing the Laboratory Room Action there. It doesn’t matter 
if you’re not the one who did the research, as long as the Weakness has 
been discovered at the end of the game.
 
board – look for the Rooms with the number “1” on their back.
 
number “1” on their back.
	 More	on	Intruder	Weakness	cards	–	see	page	21.
	 More	on	Objects	–	see	page	22.
	 More	on	Laboratory	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.
	 More	on	Nest	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	25.
Destroy the Nest
The Nest is destroyed when there are no Intruder Eggs left in it. To de-
stroy Eggs, check the Nest description on the Room sheet.
 
“1” on their back.
	 More	on	Nest	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	25.

The Nest is always on the board – look for the Rooms with the number 

Intruder Eggs may be found in the Nest. The Nest is always on the 

The Laboratory is always on the board – look for the Rooms with the 

Basic Actions,
Actions from Action cards,
Actions from Item cards,
Actions from Room tiles.

 
 
 
 
	 More	on	Player	Phase	–	see	page	10.

  
  
Action symbols

Action Cost                                

Each  Action  displays  an  Action  symbol.  The  number  in  any  given 
Action symbol indicates the Cost of performing the given Action. In 
order to pay the Cost, the player must discard the exact number of 
any chosen Action cards from their hand. Discarded cards are placed 
face up in the discard pile.
	
Important:	Even	though	they’re	included	in	the	Action	deck,	Contamina-
tion cards are not Action cards. They cannot be discarded from your hand to 
pay	any	Action	Cost.	Contamination	cards	represent	the	exhaustion	of	your	
Character	–	and	sometimes	something	even	worse.
  More	on	Contamination	cards	–	see	page	20.

Combat symbol                                

Some of the Actions and Items specify when they may be used:

In  Combat  only  –  The  Character  may  per-
form this Action only in Combat.

A Character is considered to be in Combat if there 
is an Intruder in their Room. Eggs do not count as In-
truders.

out of Combat only – The Character may 
perform  this  Action  only  when  they  are  NOT  in 
Combat. 

If a given Action is not marked by any of the symbols above, 
this Action may be performed both in Combat and out of it.
	 More	on	Combat	–	see	page	18.

ACTIoNS                                                                         

<<<  actions  >>>

Melee Attack – Attack an Intruder with your 
bare Hands (or anything you can improvise). You can only 

Attack Intruders in the same Room as your Character.
You	may	also	Attack	Uncarried	Eggs	outside	of	combat	–	see Destroying 
Eggs,	page	25.
	 More	on	Melee	Attack	–	see	Encounter	and	Combat,	page	19.

 
ACTIoNS 
FroM ITEM CArDS                 

ACTIoNS 
FroM ACTIoN CArDS                 

To perform an Action from an Action card, discard this card from 

Each Character has its own, partially unique, set of 10 Action cards 
representing the Actions which can be performed by this Character.
 
The description of each Action is detailed on the corresponding 
Action card. 
 
your Hand (face up) and pay its Cost. 
 
Important: In this case, the Cost of an Action is the number of Action 
cards you must discard from your Hand, in addition to the Action card with 
the performed Action. 
 
player chooses the one they want to perform.

If an Action card contains two sections separated by [OR], the 

Some Item cards allow a Character to perform specific Actions. 
 
	 More	on	Items	–	see	Inventory,	page	22.

Their description is provided on the Item cards.

ACTIoNS 
FroM rooM TILES                 

Most of the Rooms allow a Character to perform a specific Action. 
 
sheet – see	page	24.

The description of each Room Action is provided on the Room 

BASIC ACTIoNS                 

Each Character has the same set of Basic Actions. A detailed descrip-
tion of these Actions is given below.

outside-of-Combat                  
Movement – Move your Character miniature to 
the neighboring Room, applying all the Movement basic rules.

Note: When performing a Movement in Combat, you will Escape instead.

 
	 More	on	Movement	–	see	page	14.
	 More	on	Escape	–	see	Character	Escape,	page	19.

Careful Movement – Works exactly 
like Movement, but instead of performing a Noise roll af-
ter moving, place a Noise marker in a chosen Corridor connected 
to the Room you are entering.
 
If  there  is  a  Noise  marker  in  all  the  Corridors  connected  to  the 
Room you want to move to, you cannot perform a Careful Movement.
  You cannot perform Careful Movement if you are in Combat.
	
	 More	on	Movement,	Noise	rolls	and	Noise	markers	–	see	pages	14–15.
pick  up  Heavy  object  – Pick up  
1 Heavy Object present in the Room you are in. It can be  

Any	given	Corridor	may	never	hold	more	than	1	Noise	marker.

Note: When you use a Search Action card and find Heavy Items, you are 

a Character Corpse, an Intruder Carcass or an Intruder Egg.
 
not required to use this Action. This Action applies only to Objects.
	 More	on	Heavy	Objects	–	see	page	22.

Trade – Start a trade with all Characters in the same 
Room as your Character.

  Players may now show each other any Item cards and Objects 
they want to trade. If both involved players agree on the transaction, 
they exchange the items. Even though several players may take part 
in the Trade (with or without the active player), the only player that 
performs the Action is the one that started it. 
  A player can choose to give an Item card or Object without asking 
anything in return.
 
is traded, its ammo stays with it.

Note: Characters cannot remove Ammo from their weapons. If a weapon 

Craft Item – Discard 2 Item cards showing the 
appropriate blue Craft symbols to gain a Crafted Item card 
with the same Craft symbols (but in a grey color) as the Items you 
have discarded.
 
the required blue Components.
	 More	on	Crafting	Items	–	see	page	23.

A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have 

regardless-of-Combat                  
Shoot – Attack an Intruder with a Weapon placed 
in  your  Character’s  Hand,  discarding  an  Ammo  marker 
from that Weapon’s card. You can only shoot Intruders in the same 
Room as your Character.
	
Eggs,	page	25.
	 More	on	Shooting	–	see	Encounter	and	Combat,	page	18.
	 More	on	Items	in	Character’s	Hand	–	see	Items,	page	22.

You	may	also	shoot	Uncarried	Eggs	outside	of	Combat	–	see Destroying 

13

MovEMENT AND EXpLorATIoN ToKENS                                                                         
Moving around the ship is one of the basic activities of the Char-

perform	a	Noise	roll	–	in	such	a	case,	bigger	groups	sharing	a	common	
Room might be in trouble.

acters during the game. Characters will roam through the ship 
to discover additional rooms, find items that are useful or vital to their 
survival, complete their objectives, repair dangerous and malfunction-
ing gear or put out fires, to find – in the end – a way out of this mess.

rooMS 
AND CorrIDorS                 

oTHEr MovEMENT ACTIoNS                                

Some of the Actions allow a Character to perform Movement, but 
modify its rules in some way – like Careful Movement and Recon-
naissance.
	 More	on	Careful	Movement	–	see	Basic	Actions,	page	13.
	 More	on	Reconnaissance	–	see	Scout	Actions	cards.
 
Important: To perform a Movement Action to leave a Room containing 
an Intruder, you must use the Escape rule –	see	Encounter	and	Combat,	
pages	18–19.

EXpLorATIoN ToKENS

The front side of each Exploration token displays:
  1) a number indicating the amount of Items in a given Room,
  2) a special Effect symbol.
They are resolved in the following way:
1) SET up THE AMouNT 
oF Items IN A room                                

After revealing the Exploration token, rotate the Room tile until the 
number shown on the token faces the Item Counter symbol printed 
on the board, next to the Room tile slot. This is the exact amount of 
Items that can be obtained from this Room.
 
Slime. 
	 More	on	Searching	Items	–	see	Search	Action	card	and	see	Items,	page	23.

You do not set the amount of Items in a Nest or in a Room Covered with 

Item	Counter	set	to	2	Items

Escape	Pod	tokens	are	the	only	exception	to	the	rule	above –	see	Escape	

Character  miniatures  may  be  placed  and  perform  Actions  only  in 
ROOMS (keep in mind that Special Rooms, such as the Hibernato-
rium, Engines or Cockpit are treated as normal Rooms).
 
Pods,	Room	sheet,	page	26.
 
  CORRIDORS connect the Rooms, and are used to move between 
Rooms,  though  neither  Characters  nor  Intruders  can  ever  stop  in 
them for any reason.
 
AFTER moving into the Room.

The Effects of moving through any given Corridor are resolved 

Intruder miniatures may also only be placed in Rooms. 

MovEMENT ACTIoN                 

The most common Action used to move around the ship is MOVEMENT.
	 More	on	Movement	Action	–	see	Actions,	pages	13–14.
  Performing a Movement Action means moving the miniature of 
your Character to a neighboring Room.
 
Two Rooms are treated as neighboring when they are directly con-
nected to each other by a Corridor. Closed Doors block the “neighbor-
ing” status for the players’ Movement. 
	 More	on	Closed	Doors	–	see	page	17.

After entering a Room, always resolve the following steps:

1) If this Room tile was unexplored (face down), turn it over (face up).
  After doing that, reveal the EXPLORATION TOKEN lying on that 
Room tile.
	 More	on	Exploration	tokens	–	see	page	14.

 If there is anyone (either a Character or an Intruder) in the Room 

2) If the Character enters an empty Room (explored or unexplored, 
with neither Characters nor Intruders), perform a NOISE ROLL.
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	page	15.
 
the Character is entering, do not perform a NOISE ROLL.
 
Hint: Aside from the advantage of moving around the ship in groups 
(entering Rooms that already contain Characters), such tactics may gener-
ate an additional risk. Some events in the game instruct all Characters to 

14

MovEMENT AND EXpLorATIoN ToKENS                                                                         

<<<  movement and exploration  >>>

2) rESoLvE SPECIAL EFFECT                                

An Exploration token may generate the following Effects:

 SILENCE: 

Nothing happens. 
  Do not perform a Noise roll for this Movement.
 
then resolve “Danger” instead.

If  the  Character  has  a  Slime  marker  on  their  Character  board, 

 DANGEr: 

Do not perform a Noise roll for this Movement.
If there is an Intruder in the neighboring Room (and it is not in 
 
Combat with any Character), move it to this Room. If there is more 
than one Intruder eligible, move them all.
 
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms (or if 
they  are  in  Combat),  place  a  Noise  marker  in  each  Corridor  con-
nected to this Room without a Noise marker already placed (count-
ing Technical Corridors if there is an Entrance in the Room).
	 More	on	Noise	markers	–	see	page	17.
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.
	 More	on	Combat	–	see	page	18.

 SLIME: 

Place a Status marker in the indicated slot of your Character board 
to indicate they have been covered with slime.
	 More	on	Slime	markers	–	see	page	17.

 FIrE: 

Place a Fire marker in this Room.
	 More	on	Fire	markers	–	see	page	17.

 MALFuNCTIoN: 

Place a Malfunction marker in this Room.
	 More	on	Malfunction	markers	–	see	page	17.

 DoorS: 

Place a Door token in the Corridor by which you have entered that Room.
	 More	on	Door	tokens	–	see	page	17.

After resolving an Exploration token, remove it from the game.
	
resolved once, when their Room is entered for the first time in the game.

Exploration	tokens	are	placed	on	unexplored	Rooms,	so	they	are	only	

NoISE roLL                 

Noises echo throughout the Nemesis decks… 
sometimes from the ship‘s machinery, but 
sometimes from Intruders.

REMEMBER: If you are moving into a Room with either another 
Character or an Intruder – you do NOT perform a Noise roll.

Roll a Noise die and resolve the result:

 

 

 

 

rESuLT oF 1, 2, 3 or 4: 
Place a Noise marker in a Corridor with a number corresponding to 
the result of your Noise roll, and connected to the Room you have 
entered  (counting  Technical  Corridors,  if  there  is  an  Entrance  in  
the Room).
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.
  Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker. If 
you are instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that already 
contains one, resolve an Encounter instead. 
	 More	on	Encounters	–	see	page	18.
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.
	 More	on	Noise	markers	–	see	page	17.

 DANGEr: 

Intruders moving as a result of a Danger roll do not ignore Closed Doors. 

If there is an Intruder in the neighboring Room (and it is not in Com-
bat with any Character), move it to this Room. If there is more than 
one Intruder eligible, move them all.
 
  More	on	Door	token	–	see	page	17.
 
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms (or if 
they are in Combat), place a Noise marker in each Corridor connect-
ed to this Room that does not already have a Noise marker (counting 
Technical Corridors, if there is an Entrance in the Room).
	 More	on	Noise	markers	–	see	page	17.
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.
	 More	on	Combat	–	see	page	18.

 SILENCE: 

Nothing happens. No Noise marker is placed.
 
then resolve “Danger” instead.

If the Character has a Slime marker on their Character board, 

Additional notes about 

Intruder movement

Intruders  move  at  different  times  of  the  game  (for  exam-
ple, when resolving an Event card during the Event Phase). 
Whenever a rule makes you move one or more Intruders,  
it explains in detail how to do it. 
	
Important:	If	an	Intruder	ends	its	Movement	in	an	unexplored	
Room,	do	not	remove	it	and	don’t	reveal	the	Room	(or	its	Explora-
tion token).

If you are instructed to place an Adult Intruder on the board, 
but  all  8  models  are  already  on  board  –  the  Adult  Intrud-
ers retreat. Remove all Adult Intruder models that are not in 
Combat and put the same number of Intruder tokens back in 
the Intruder bag (if possible).
 
the Encounter occured.

Then, place an Adult Intruder model in the Room where 

15

                                                                                            

<<<  movement and exploration  >>>

TECHNICAL CorrIDorS

The Technical Corridor network of the Nemesis 
allows the crew to repair its various systems. 
Unfortunately, it is also a great way for the 
Intruders to move around the ship. Normal 
characters can’t use Technical Corridors – the 
thought of getting lost or meeting an Intruder 
is enough to discourage them. 

  Both the Technical Corridors Entrances (present in some Rooms) 
and the special Technical Corridors space are not accessible to the 
Characters.  Outside  these  movement  restrictions,  Technical  Corri-
dors function like normal Corridors in all other ways.
 
The Technical Corridors Action card from the Mechanic Action deck and 
the	Technical	Corridor	Plans	Item	card	are	the	only	exceptions	to	this	rule.
 
If (for example as the result of a Noise roll) a Noise marker should 
be placed and the number leads to the Technical Corridor Entrance, 
this  Noise  marker  should  be  placed  on  the  Technical  Corridors 
space.
  Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker.  
If you are instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that al-
ready contains one, resolve an Encounter instead.
	 More	on	Encounters	–	see	page	18.
  Door tokens can never be placed in Technical Corridors.
 
If an Intruder moves to the Technical Corridors Entrance, then 
it disappears in the ducts: discard all its Injury markers, return its 
token to the Intruder bag, and remove its miniature from the board. 
If there was a Noise marker on the Technical Corridors space, do not 
remove it.

1) Technical Corridors space.

2) Examples of Technical Corridors Entrances.

16

<<<  movement and exploration  >>>

  NoISE Marker                                

The only function of the Noise markers is to mark Corridors for the 
purpose of the Noise roll rule.
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	page	15.

 MALFuNCTIoN Marker
Malfunction markers have two purposes: 1) they prevent you from 
using this Room’s Actions and 2) may cause loss of integrity of the 
ship’s hull – meaning that everything on board dies.

  1) If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room, that Room’s 
Action is no longer available.
 

The Search Action works normally, though.

Important: A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Nest or in 

  Various Action cards (like Repair Action cards) and Items (like 
the Tools Item card) may be used to discard a Malfunction marker.
 
the Room Covered with Slime.
 
Note:  A  Malfunction  marker  may  be  placed  in  a  Room  due  to  many 
reasons	 other	 than	 resolving	 an	 Exploration	 token	 (like	 some	 Events	 or	
Actions).  They  even  disable  Special  Rooms  (such  as  the  Hibernatorium, 
Cockpit, or Engines).
 
ready Hibernated Characters.

Note: A Malfunction marker in the Hibernatorium has no Effect on al-

The status of the Engines (Damaged / Working) is never affected 

 
by Malfunction markers placed in their Room. 
	 More	on	Engines	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.

  2) There are 8 Malfunction markers in game. If you are instruct-
ed to place a Malfunction marker and there are no more markers in 
the pool, the ship loses hull integrity and the game ends.
	 More	on	End	of	the	Game	–	see	page	11.

  Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Malfunction mark-
er. If you are instructed to place another one, nothing happens.

  Any discarded Malfunction marker goes back to the Malfunction 
marker pool.

If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room with a Com-
puter,  the  Computer  is  unavailable  –  as  if  there  was  no 
Computer symbol.

	 More	on	Computers	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.

 SLIME Marker                                

As  long  as  the  Character  has  a  Slime  marker  on  their  Character 
board, each “Silence” result of a Noise roll (and each “Silence” Ex-
ploration token) should instead be considered as “Danger”.
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	page	15.

Note: A Character may get a Slime marker due to many reasons, not 

  A Character may only have 1 Slime marker at a time. If they are 
instructed to get another while they have one, nothing happens.
 
only	when	resolving	an	Exploration	token.
 
card (see Item cards) or taking a Shower Room Action (see Room sheet).
 
of the Character board.

A Character may get rid of the Slime marker by using  the Clothes Item 

The Slime marker is a universal Status marker, placed in the Slime slot 

FIrE Marker                                

Fire markers have three functions: 1) they wound Characters staying 
in Rooms on fire, 2) they deal Injuries to Intruders and 3) they may 
cause the explosion of the whole ship.

Remember	that	one	turn	is	2	Actions	of	one	Character	(or	1	Action	and	

  1) Every time a Character ends their turn in a Room with a Fire 
marker, this Character suffers 1 Light Wound.
	
pass, or simply pass).
 
Important: Characters suffer Wounds from Fire only after they finished 
their	turn.	If	the	Character	passes,	they	suffer	1	Light	Wound	from	Fire	at	
the	end	of	their	turn,	but	they	won’t	suffer	any	more	Wounds	from	Fire	this	
round, even if other Characters play their turn after them.
	 More	on	Light	Wounds	–	see	Wounds,	page	21.
	 More	on	Action	turns	–	see	Player	Phase,	page	10.

  2) During each Event Phase, during the Fire Damage step, each 
Intruder present in a Room with a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury.
	 More	on	Intruder	Injuries	–	see	Combat,	page	20.

  3) There are 8 Fire markers in the game. If you are intructed to 
place a Fire marker and there are no more markers in the pool, the 
ship explodes and the game ends.
 
Rooms or cause Malfunctions in Rooms already on fire, so be careful!
	

Note: Some Event cards may cause the Fire to spread to neighboring 

See	more	–	End	of	the	Game,	page	11.

  Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Fire marker. If you 
are instructed to place another one, nothing happens.

  Any discarded Fire marker goes back to the Fire marker pool.
 
 

You can still use a Room Action when there is a Fire marker in the Room.
You can still use a Search Action when there is a Fire marker in the Room.

  Door ToKEN                                

Door tokens are only placed in Corridors. Each Corridor may never 
hold more than 1 Door token.

  Doors tokens do not affect Noise markers.

  Doors  in  each  Corridor  can  have  three  different  status:  Open, 
Closed  or  Destroyed.  Many  things  can  change  their  status  (like  
Intruder movement, Events, Actions, etc.).

CLoSED  DoorS  are  marked  with  a  standing  Door  token  in  

a Corridor. 
  A Closed Door prevents Characters and Intruders moving through 
this Corridor (Grenade throwing is also affected).
	 More	on	Throw	–	see	the	Grenade	Item	card.
  When one or more Intruders try to move through a Corridor with 
a  Closed  Door  token,  the  Intruders  do  not  move,  but  destroy  this 
Door instead. This includes Intruders attempting to move due to the 
Danger result of a Noise roll.
	 More	on	Intruder	Movement	–	see	page	15.

DESTroYED  DoorS  are  marked  with  a  lying  Door  token. 

Movement is allowed through this Corridor. 
  A Destroyed Door can never be Closed again.
	
chanic’s	Item	cards).

The	only	exception	to	this	rule	is	the	Plasma Torch Item (see the Me-

opEN DoorS – to mark that the Door is Open, simply remove 
the Door token from the Corridor. At the beginning of the game, all 
Corridors have Open Doors.

 
If there are no Door tokens left in the pool when you are instructed 
to place a Door, take any non-Destroyed Door token on the board and 
place it in the required Corridor.
 
If several Intruders are moving from the same Room, their Movement 
is considered simultaneous: they destroy the Door and all stay in the start-
ing Room.
 

Door tokens are ignored when resolving Encounters. 

17

ENCouNTEr AND CoMBAT                                                                                                       

ENCouNTEr                 

An Encounter is any instance of an Intruder appearing on board in  
a Room where a Character is present (after drawing an Intruder to-
ken from the Intruder bag).
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	page	15.
 
(like Hatching) or some of the Intruder Attack cards.
 
a Character does not count as an Encounter.

Note: An Intruder moving from one Room to another Room containing 

An Encounter may also be triggered by the Effects of some Event cards 

2) Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag.
Each  Intruder  token  has  an  Intruder  symbol  on  one  side,  and  

To resolve an Encounter, follow the steps listed below:
1) Discard all Noise markers from all the Corridors connected 
 
to this Room (including Technical Corridors, if there is a Technical 
Corridors Entrance).
 
 
a number on the opposite side.
 
3) Place an Intruder miniature in the Room. The Intruder type 
must correspond to the Intruder symbol shown on the token. For  
a description of each Intruder symbol, see the Intruder board.
4) Compare the number on the Intruder token with the number 
 
of cards in the player’s hand (Action and Contamination cards are 
counted).
 
the number on the Intruder token, a Surprise Attack occurs.
 
If the number of Action cards is equal to or higher, nothing happens.
  Put the drawn Intruder token aside – it may return to the bag if 
an Intruder of that type hides (by entering the Technical Corridors 
during the Intruder Movement).

If the number of Action cards in the player’s hand is lower than 

Surprise Attack:
The Surprise Attack is an Intruder Attack which only occurs during 
an Encounter. If the player has fewer cards in their hand than the 
the number printed on the drawn Intruder token, a Surprise Attack 
takes place.
	 More	on	Intruder	Attack	–	see	Event	Phase,	pages	10	and	20.

 BLANK ToKEN                                

If a player draws the Blank token, place a Noise marker in each Cor-
ridor  connected  to  the  Room  in  which  this  Encounter  took  place. 
Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag.

If there are no Adult Intruder tokens available, nothing happens. 

If  the  Blank  token  was  the  last  token  in  the  Intruder  bag,  add 
1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
 
  Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag. 
 
Note: The Blank token rules are slightly different during the Intruder bag 
development step of the Event Phase.

This Encounter ends.

Entering a room 
with an Intruder                                

Each time a Character enters a Room occupied by an Intruder, do 
not  resolve  an  Encounter.  The  Intruder  and  the  Character  are  im-
mediately considered to be in Combat.

18

CoMBAT                                

In Combat, a Character may Attack an Intruder or Escape during 

Whenever both a Character and an Intruder are in the same Room, 
they are considered to be in Combat.
 
their Action turn. Intruders Attack Characters during the Event Phase.
 
Only”	symbol,	page	12.
	 More	on	turns	–	see	Player	Phase,	page	10.
	 More	on	Intruder	Attack	–	see	Event	Phase,	pages	10	and	20.

Some  Actions  cannot  be  used  during  Combat  –	 see	 “Out	 of	 Combat	

 

CHArACTEr ATTACKS INTruDEr                                

The  Character  may  Attack  an  Intruder  in  the  same  Room  using  
a Shoot Action or a Melee Attack Action during their round.
	 More	on	rounds	–	see	page	10;	more	on	Actions	–	see	page	12.

SHooT ACTIoN – If a Character is in a Room with an 
Intruder and has a Weapon with at least 1 Ammo, they may perform 
a Shoot Basic Action against that Intruder:
1) Choose a Weapon and 1 Intruder you want to Shoot.
2) Discard 1 Ammo from that Weapon’s card.
3) Roll the Combat die.
  Combat die results:

– You miss your target.

– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your 

target. If not, you miss.

– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal  

1 Injury to your target. If not, you miss.

– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 

type).

– Deal 2 Injuries to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 

Important:  Some  Weapons  have  special  rules  that  may  modify  the 

type).
 
Shooting Action.
	 More	on	Weapons	–	see	Items,	page	22.
	 More	on	Intruder	Injuries	and	Death	–	see	page	20.

ENCouNTEr AND CoMBAT                                                                                                       

<<<  Encounter, combat and wounds  >>>

MELEE  ATTACK  ACTIoN  –  If  a  Character  is  in  
a Room with an Intruder, they may perform a Basic Melee Attack 
Action against that Intruder:
1) Draw 1 Contamination card and add it to your Action discard pile.
2) Choose 1 Intruder you want to Attack.
3) Roll the Combat die.
  Combat die results:

– You miss your target and your Character suffers 1 Serious 

Wound.

target.
 

type).

– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your 

If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 Serious Wound.

– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal  

1 Injury to your target.
 

If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 Serious Wound.

– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 

– Deal 1 Injury (yes, only 1!) to your target (regardless of 

the Intruder’s type).
	 More	on	Intruder	Injuries	and	Death	–	see	page	20.
	 More	on	Serious	Wounds	–	see	page	21.

CHArACTEr ESCApE                 

If	there	is	more	than	1	Intruder	in	the	Room	you	are	trying	to	Escape	

If your Character survives, you end your Movement in the neigh-

A  Character  may  also  try  to  Escape  from  Combat  by  performing  
a Basic Movement Action to go to a neighboring Room (explored or 
unexplored). Before you move your miniature, resolve an Intruder 
Attack.
	 More	on	Intruder	Attack	–	see	Event	Phase,	pages	10	and	20.
	
from, resolve a separate Intruder Attack for each Intruder.
 
boring Room.
	
If there is no one in that Room, perform a Noise roll.
 
to Escape from.
Important: Some Actions, other than the Basic Movement Action, allow 
 
a	Character	to	Escape,	but	additionally	modify	this	rule	–	for	example,	Sup-
pressive Fire, Covering Fire (see the Action cards).
 
or Intruders, perform a Noise roll just like after a standard move.

If you die, place a Character Corpse token in the Room you tried 

If	it	was	an	unexplored	Room,	Explore	it	according	to	the	standard	rules.	

Note: If the Character Escapes to a Room without any other Characters 

Desperate times call for desperate measures. 
A metal pipe, a heavy tool, a rifle butt, 
anything can become an improvised Weapon 
in a hopeless situation. Close Combat works 
like Shooting, but the risks are far greater. 
If the Attack fails to hit, then the character 
immediately suffers a Serious Wound, in 
addition of the risk of being contaminated.

19

INTruDEr INJurIES 
AND DEATH                  

                  
														“Blood”	symbol																		Intruder	Carcass	token

                          

 

W hen any Intruder suffers Injuries (for example, as a result of 

a  successful  Character  Attack  or  from  Fire),  place  the  cor-

Then, check the Injury Effect:

Larva and Egg – 1 Injury is enough to kill them. Remove their 

responding number of Injury markers on its base.
 
 
miniature from the board.
 
Creeper or Adult Intruder – draw 1 Intruder Attack card, ig-
nore everything on this card except the “blood” symbol in the upper 
left corner of the card.
If the number in the “blood” symbol of the card is equal to or 
 
lower than the current number of Injury markers on this Intruder, it 
is killed – remove its miniature and place 1 Intruder Carcass token in 
the Room where it was slain (indicating an Intruder Carcass Object).
 
If the number in the “blood” symbol is higher, the Intruder is still alive.
Breeder  or  Queen  –  draw  2  Intruder  Attack  cards,  add  the 
 
value of their “blood” symbols, and compare the total to the current 
number of Injury markers of this Intruder. Resolve the result using 
the same method as above for the Creeper and the Adult Intruder.
	
Note:	The	“blood”	symbol	represents	the	current	endurance	of	the	In-
truder. This value may vary for a given individual, depending on the cards 
drawn after each successful Attack. A new card is drawn after each success-
ful Attack, not just once per turn.
There	are	also	two	“Five Injuries” tokens provided, which may help you 
	
with	tracking	Injuries	on	bigger	Intruders	–	such	as	the	Queen	or	Breeders.

 
Retreat symbol

INTruDEr rETrEAT                                

Intruders might seem savage, but they are not 
mindless. They can run away if they suffer too 
many Wounds, or if someone is lucky enough to 
damage one of their vulnerable parts.

  During the Injury Effect check, if there is a Retreat arrow in the 
“blood” symbol of any of the drawn Intruder Attack cards, then this 
Intruder flees.
  Draw  an  Event  card  and  move  the  Intruder  through  the  Corri-
dor whose number appears in the Intruder Movement section of the 
card. Then, discard that Event card.
  Any  Injury  markers  assigned  to  the  retreating  Intruder  remain 
with that Intruder. However, should an Intruder retreat to a Technical 
Corridor, remove those Wounds when you remove the miniature.
	 More	on	Event	cards	–	see	page	10.
	 More	on	Technical	Corridors	–	see	page	16.
	 The	Queen	and	the	Breeders	will	retreat	if	any	of	the	2	Intruder	Attack	
cards drawn displays the Retreat symbol.

20

<<<  Encounter, combat and wounds  >>>

Surprise Attack, 

INTruDEr ATTACK                 

Character’s Escape.

Intruder Attack step in the Event Phase, 

	More	on	Intruder	Attack	–	see	Event	Phase,	page	10.

Each Intruder Attack follows the steps below:
1) Choose the Character who is the target of this Intruder Attack. 

Intruder Attacks happen in three cases:
 
	 More	on	Surprise	Attack	–	see	Encounter,	page	18.
 
	
 
	 More	on	Escape	–	see	page	19.
 
 
The Intruder may only Attack a Character in the same Room.
If there is more than one Character in the Room, Intruders al-
 
ways Attack the Character whose player has the fewest Action cards 
in their hand. In the event of a tie, the Character with the First Player 
token (or the next player in turn order) is Attacked.
 
who triggered the Encounter.
 
performing the Escape Action.
 
 
Attacking Intruder, resolve the Effect described on the card.
 
	
	
upper left corner of the Intruder Attack card.
  After resolving an Intruder Attack card, it is placed in the Intruder 
discard pile.

Explanation	of	Intruder	Symbols	–	see	the	Intruder	board.
Important:	During	an	Intruder	Attack,	ignore	the	“blood”	symbol	in	the	

In case of a Surprise Attack, the Character targeted is the one 

In case of an Escape, the Character targeted is the one who is 

If the card displays an Intruder Symbol corresponding to the 

2) Draw and resolve 1 Intruder Attack card:

If not, the Attack misses.

If you run out of cards in the Intruder Attack deck, take its discard 
pile and reshuffle it. It becomes the new Intruder Attack deck.

INFEST                                                             

If  the  Intruder  Attack  is  performed  by  a  Larva,  do  not  draw  any  
Intruder Attack cards. Apply the following instead:
 
Remove the Larva miniature from the board. Then, if the Char-
acter being Attacked doesn’t have a Larva on their Character board, 
place one there.
 
	 More	on	Contamination	cards	–	see	below.

The targeted player gets 1 Contamination card.

CoNTAMINATIoN CArDS

In addition to Wounds, Characters may get Contamination cards (for 
example, as the result of some Intruder Attacks).

  When a Character gets a Contamination card (regardless of the 
source), draw it from the Contamination deck and place it on top of 
their Action discard pile.

  Contamination cards are a disadvantage for the player, because 
they  are  kept  in  hand  like  a  normal  Action  card,  but  they  do  not 
provide any additional Actions and you cannot spend them to pay 
the Costs of the other Actions. They may still be discarded when 
Passing.
 
Each Contamination card contains hidden information: the Char-
acter may be INFECTED or not. This information is hidden by colorful 
patterns in the text field. Unless the card is Scanned, this information 
remains unknown to the player until the end of the game. 
 
If the Character does not Scan their Contamination cards before 
the end of the game, the player may lose at the end of game due to 
a surprise infection. 
	 More	on	Victory	Check	–	see	Player’s	Goals	and	End	of	the	Game,	page	11.
 
Note: Some Event cards may force the player to Scan their Contamina-
tion cards.
SCANNING AND rEMovING
CoNTAMINATIoN CArDS                                

A Character may try to get rid of their Contamination cards through 
several different ways (like the Rest Action card, a Canteen, Shower 
or Surgery Room Action and the Antidote Item Action). 
 
Each  card  /  Room  description  details  the  procedure  to  follow. 
Whatever  the  procedure,  it  requires  a  Scan  of  the  Contamination 
cards. A Scan is performed in the following way:

Note:	Look	closely	at	the	cards,	because	some	of	the	coded	words	may	

In both of these cases, any additional Scanning Effect is explained in 

Take the Scanner and place its red foil part over the coded field of the 
 
Contamination card you’re Scanning. In one of the lines of text, the word 
INFECTED may appear. If not, the card is NOT INFECTED.
	
look similar to INFECTED.
 
the description of the given Action card, Room Action or Item Action.
	 More	on	Room	Actions	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.
 
(and do not remove this Contamination card!).
 
dies – additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
 
card from the game.

If any rule asks you to remove a Contamination card, remove this 

If there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character 

If you’re INFECTED, place a Larva miniature on your Character board 

<<<  Encounter, combat and wounds  >>>

CHArACTEr WouNDS 
AND DEATH                             

During the game, Characters may suffer two types of Wounds: Light 
and Serious.

Light Wounds
Wounds  are  recorded  using  the  Light  Wound 
Track on a player’s Character board.
  When  a  Character  suffers  a  Light  Wound, 
if  there  isn’t  a  Status  marker  on  their  Wound 
Track, place one in the upper space.
  Should  the  Character  take  another  Light 
Wound,  move  the  marker  down  the  track.  If 
the  marker  reaches  the  third  position,  discard 
the marker and the Character suffers a Serious 
Wound.
Serious Wound
When a Character suffers a Serious Wound, 
draw 1 Serious Wound card and place it next 
to  the  Character  board.  From  now  on,  the 
player is affected by the Effect described on 
that card.
  Each type of Serious Wound has a different Ef-
fect, described on its card.

When a Character with 3 Serious Wounds suffers any additional 
Wound (Light or Serious), they are instantly killed.
  When a Character dies, remove their miniature from the board 
and place a Character Corpse token in the Room where they died – 
from now on, it is considered a Character Corpse Object.
  When a Character dies, they drop all their Heavy Objects in the 
Room they died in. All other Items are removed from the game.
 
Important: If a Character has several copies of identical Serious Wounds 
cards, their Effects are not cumulative. It will be more difficult to get rid of 
their Effects, though.
	 Mode:	Play	as	an	Intruder	–	see	Game	Modes,	page	27.
	 More	on	Heavy	Items	and	Objects	–	see	page	22.

Intruder 
Weakness cards                 

During  game  setup,  you  placed  3  random  Weakness  cards  (face 
down) on the 3 Intruder Weakness slots on the Intruder board. Dur-
ing the game, you will have the possibility to discover these 3 Weak-
nesses. They represent the crew gaining gradual knowledge on the 
lifeform that infests the ship.
 
Each of the 3 Weakness cards is placed in a space correspond-
ing  to  a  different  Object:  1)  Character  Corpse,  2)  Intruder  Egg,  
3) Intruder Carcass.

As the old saying goes, if it bleeds, we can kill it. 
But what if we can’t be sure whether the fluid 
coming out of the alien wretch is, in fact, blood? 
Either way, it’s helpful to know that Shooting 
the Intruders hurts them. The problem is, you 
can never be sure how bad their condition is and 
if you can kill them before Ammo runs out...
  The crew has no past experience with 
Intruders, and so players cannot be sure how 
much damage is needed to kill one! 

Each relevant Item card or Room Action details the Wound treat-

DrESSING AND HEALING WouNDS
During the game, a player may Dress and Heal their Wounds in many 
ways  (using  Clothes,  Bandages,  Medkit  Item  cards  or  the  Emer-
gency Room Action).
 
ment. It can be either Dress or Heal. 
  Dress  Serious  Wound  –  Flip  a  Serious 
Wound card affecting the Character to its backside. From now on, 
its Effect is ignored, but it still counts against the limit of 3 Serious 
Wounds.
  Heal – Either remove (in case of a Light Wound) or discard 
(in case of a Dressed Serious Wound card) the Wound mentioned in 
the Action Effect.
	 More	on	Item	cards	–	see	Objects	and	Items,	page	22.

To discover a given Weakness card, any Character must research 

 
the corresponding Object in the Laboratory Room.
	 More	on	Research	in	the	Laboratory	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.
	 More	on	Objects	–	see	Items	and	Objects,	page	22.

Object tokens:

 
   
  Intruder Egg        Intruder Carcass              Character Corpse

             

           

  

 

  After researching an Object, reveal the corresponding Weakness 
card – flip it face up and leave it on the Intruder board. 
  Discovered Weakness cards modify the basic rules of the Intrud-
ers, giving all players a small advantage against them.

21

oBJECTS AND ITEMS                                                                                                    
H aving appropriate Items will often make the difference between 

Drop                                                             

life and death for a Character. Items may be obtained in a few 

A Character may freely Drop any Item / Object from their Hands / 
Inventory any time during their turn without using an Action.
  Objects remain in the Room where they are dropped. 
 

Items are lost – return them to the bottom of their deck.

This ship is full of useful stuff. Sometimes you 
just have to look around the room for a few 
moments. This Fire Extinguisher might come in 
handy, those Chemicals with a Zippo will do as 
a Flamethrower.

Each  Character  starts  the  game  with  1  dedicated  Item  card 

During the game, a Character may also find various Items in 

different ways:
 
(Weapon).
 
Each Character starts the game with 2 Quest Item cards. These  
2 cards are placed face down on their horinzontal side. Once their 
requirements are fulfilled, the cards are flipped face up on their verti-
cal side and become normal Item cards.
 
the Rooms, using the Search Action card.
	 More	on	Search	Action	–	see	page	23.
 
During the game, a Character may also create special Crafted 
Items by assembling other Items in their possession using the Craft 
Basic Action.
	 More	on	Craft	Action	–	see	page	23.
 
The  Characters  may  also  discover  Heavy  Objects  during  the 
game (Character Corpse, Intruder Carcass and Eggs), which are not 
represented by cards but by special tokens or miniatures. They can be 
carried around by the Characters. These Objects don’t have their own 
rules and they are used at specific times – when an Action card, Room 
Action or Event calls for it (for example, the Laboratory Room Action).
 
Important: Some Items are marked as One Use Only: after using such an 
Item, its card is discarded.
  Whenever an Item card is discarded after use, place it in a face-up 
discard pile. When an Item card is discarded without being used (such 
as with the Search Action), place it, face-down, at the bottom of its deck. 

CHArACTEr HANDS 
AND INvENTorY                 

There are two types of Item cards: Heavy Items (kept in the Charac-
ter’s Hands) and normal Items (kept in the Inventory). 
  Characters may also carry Object tokens. All current Object to-
kens are Heavy Objects.

INvENTorY                                

All normal Items may be kept secret from the other players – put them 
in your Inventory (plastic card holder), so the other players can only see 
the card backs. The other players can see the color of the Items in your 
Inventory, but they do not know exactly what you have there. However, 
when any Item card is used, it must be shown to all the other players.
 
Inventory.

There is no limit to the number of Items that can be placed in your 

Hand SYMBoL AND HEAvY
ITEMS and oBJECTS                                

Heavy Items (as Weapons) are indicated by the Hand 
symbol. They can never be kept secret from the other players and 
cannot be put in the Inventory.
  When you find / gain a Heavy Item (or pick up a Heavy Object) you 
want to keep, it must be placed in one of the two Hand slots of the Char-
acter, meaning that a Character may carry up to 2 Heavy Items / Objects.
	 More	on	Hand	slots	–	see	Character	boards.
 
If both of the Character’s Hand slots are already taken and you 
want to take another Heavy Item / Object, you must Drop 1 of the 
carried Heavy Items / Objects. 
	 More	on	Drop	–	see	below.
 
Each Weapon acquired by Searching comes into play loaded with 
1  Ammo  token.  A  Weapon  can  never  exceed  its  Ammo  capacity, 
shown on the Weapon card.
Sometimes, you can Add an Item card to another Item card (like the Ex-
 
tended Magazine or the Autoloader).	The	added	Item	is	placed	next	to	the	
indicated Item card. From now on, both cards are treated as one.
 
Items,	so	they	take	up	only	1	Hand	slot	–	but	it	doesn’t	apply	to	Objects!
	
the Weapon card.
Heavy Items are Item cards showing the Hand symbol.
 
Heavy Objects are tokens: Intruder Eggs (they are most often found in 
 
the Nest Room), Character Corpse (the Character Corpse token, represent-
ing either a dead Character or the body found in the Hibernatorium at the 
start of the game), Intruder Carcass (a Carcass token is placed after the 
death	of	any	Intruder	–	with	the	exception	of	Larvae).

Important:  The  Duct  Tape	 Item	 card	 allows	 you	 to	 combine	 2	 Heavy	

Important:	A	Weapon	can	never	exceed	its	Ammo	capacity,	shown	on	

22

oBJECTS AND ITEMS                                                                                                    

<<<  objects and items  >>>

SEArCHING                 

Three of these decks (Red, Yellow, Green) contain Items which 

Red (Military),
Yellow (Technical),
Green (Medical),
Blue (Crafted).

  Apart from the Character-dedicated Items (1 Weapon and 2 Quest 
Items), there are 4 colors of Items in the game: 
 
 
 
 
 
can be found in Rooms when using a Search Action.
	 More	on	Search	Action	–	see	Search	Action	card	in	the	Action	decks.
The color of any Item found during a Search Action should match 
 
the color of the searched Room (yellow Items in yellow Room, etc.). 
  A Room’s color is the background color under its name and rule text.
  When searching in a white Room, the player can choose to draw 
from any 1 of these 3 decks.
Each time a Character performs a Search Action in a Room, the Item 
 
Counter of that Room is reduced by 1. When the Item Counter reaches 
0, the Room has been emptied and cannot be searched anymore.
	
There	are	some	exceptions	to	this	rule,	like	the	Scout’s	Scavenging	Action.
	 More	on	Item	Counter	–	see	Set	up	the	Amount	of	Items	in	a	Room,	page	14.

CrAFTING                                 

The  fourth  (Blue)  deck  of  Item  cards  contains  Crafted  Items.  These 
Items cannot be found by searching the Rooms. They can be assembled 
with a Craft Item Basic Action, using other Items in your possession.
 
You may look through the Crafting deck at any moment of the game. 
Cards from it are never drawn during the game. Instead, when Crafting an 
Item, look for the corresponding Crafted Item card and take it.
	 More	on	the	Craft	Item	Action	–	see	Basic	Actions,	page	13.
  Crafted  Item  cards  display  2  grey  Component  symbols  repre-
senting the Components required to build this Item.

quest Items                     

Quest Items are NOT available for you to use from the start. Each of 
them has a special condition you must meet to unlock this Item dur-
ing the game (specified on the horizontal side of their cards).

  When you manage to activate a Quest Item, you can flip it and 
treat it as a standard Item (it can occupy a Hand slot, might be dis-
carded, given away, etc.)

 
The Item cards that can be used as Components for Crafted Items 
display a blue Component symbol, representing a specific Compo-
nent  that  can  be  used  (by  discarding  the  card)  to  build  a  Crafted 
Item.

To build a Crafted Item, you must perform a Craft Item Basic Ac-
 
tion and discard two Item cards showing the blue Component sym-
bols corresponding to the grey Components symbols of the Crafted 
Item you want to build (the first Item card corresponding to the first 
required Component symbol, and the second Item card correspond-
ing to the second required Component symbol).
  You can build four different Crafted Items during the game:

 

 

 

 

= ANTIDOTE

= TASER

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

= FLAMETHROWER

= MOLOTOV COCKTAIL

A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have 

 
the required Components.
	 More	on	these	4	Items	–	see	Item	cards.

ATTACKING pLAYERS

Years of accumulated knowledge of 
space travels suggest that placing a 
small group of people in a cramped metal 
can flying through the unknown for an 
extended period generates undesirable 
tensions. To prevent serious conflict 
among ship crews, space corporations 
spend billions of dollars equipping their 
crews with implants which create a 
strong psychic barrier and inhibit direct 
violence against homo sapiens. This is why 
crew members cannot directly Attack one 
another.

  Characters cannot directly Attack other Characters, but 
they may (accidentally or intentionally) harm other Charac-
ters as a side Effect of their actions. Cutting someone off in a 
Room on Fire, activating Self-Destruct sequence with people 
still on board, throwing a Grenade at an Intruder in a Room 
with other crew members, are just a few of the many pos-
sibilities…

23

rooM SHEET                                                                                                                 
T o  perform  any  Room  Action,  a  Character  must  be  in  the  cor-

responding Room (unless they possess a special ability clearly 

Evacuation Section A
Try to enter an Escape pod: 
You may perform this Action only if any Escape Pod in Sec-
tion A is Unlocked and has at least 1 empty space.

  Make  a Noise roll.  If  any  Intruder  appears  in  this  Room,  your 
attempt to enter an Escape Pod fails.
  After  resolving  your  Noise  roll,  if  no  Intruder  has  reached  the 
Room, place your Character in one of the Unlocked Escape Pods of 
Section A, if there’s any free space (each Pod has two places and 
may accommodate up to 2 Characters).
  See the Escape Pods section at the end of this section to deter-
mine what happens once the Character has entered a Pod.
 
responding Evacuation Section Room.
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	page	15.

You cannot enter an Escape Pod if any Intruder is present in its cor-

Evacuation Section B

As above, but applies to Section B.

Fire Control System

Initiate the Fire Control procedure: 
Choose any 1 Room. 
Discard a Fire marker from that Room (if there is one). 

  All the Intruders in that Room run away (in a random direction, 
determined by drawing an Event card – 1 Event card for each Intruder).
 
Hint: You can use Fire Control Procedure, even if there is no Fire marker 
in the Room, to make all the Intruders run away from that Room.
	 More	on	Intruder	Movement	–	see	Event	Phase,	pages	10	and	15.

Generator

Initiate / stop self-destruct Sequence:
self-destruct SEquENCE:

From now on, each time you move the Time marker on the Track, 

  Place 1 Status marker on the first, green space of the Self-De-
struct Track if there isn’t a marker on the track already. 
 
also move the marker on the Self-Destruct Track by 1 space.
  When any Character stops the Self-Destruct sequence, remove 
the  marker  (it  will  be  placed  again  on  the  green  space  if  a  new 
sequence starts).
  When  the  marker  first  reaches  any  yellow  space  on  the  Self-
Destruct Track, the Self-Destruct Sequence cannot be aborted any-
more and all Escape Pods are Unlocked instantly (but can be Locked 
again).
  When the marker reaches the last space (with the “skull” sym-
bol), the ship explodes. 
 
Characters are already hibernating.
	 More	on	End	of	the	Game	–	see	page	11.
 
tive, the ship is still considered destroyed.
	 More	on	Time	Track	–	see	Event	Phase,	page	10.
	 More	on	Escape	Pods	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.

Important: You cannot start the Self-Destruct sequence when any of the 

If a hyperspace jump happens while the Self-Destruct sequence is ac-

Laboratory

Analyze 1 object: 
This Action may only be performed if one of the following 
Objects is in the Room (for example, carried by the Charac-

ter): Character Corpse, Intruder Carcass or Egg. 
  Discover 1 corresponding Intruder Weakness card.
 
	 More	on	Intruder	Weakness	cards	–	see	page	21.
	 More	on	Objects	–	see	page	22.

The Object is not discarded after Research. You may Drop it for free, though.

saying otherwise).
  You cannot perform a Room Action when you are in Combat. 
You cannot perform a Room Action in a Room with a Malfunction 
marker.

rooms with a computer                                

Some Rooms have a Computer symbol, meaning that 
there is a Computer in that Room. A Computer symbol 
has no significance except when some rule refers to it 
(some Action cards, Item cards or Event cards).
  If there is a Malfunction marker in the Room, the 

Computer is unavailable – as if there were no Computer symbol.

BASIC rooMS "1"                 

All the 11 Basic Rooms, indicated by the num ber “1” on their back, 
are present in each game.

Armory

recharge your Energy Weapon: 
Add 2 Ammo tokens to 1 of your Energy Weapons.
Note: This Room Action does not reload Classic Weapons.

Note:	A	Weapon	can	never	exceed	its	Ammo	capacity,	shown	on	the	

	
Weapon card.

Comms room

Send a Signal: 
Place a Status marker on the Signal space on your Char-
acter board.

Sending a Signal is a requirement for some Objectives and has no other 

 
game use than that.

Emergency room

Treat your Wounds: 
Dress all your Serious Wounds OR Heal 1 of your Dressed 
Serious Wounds OR Heal all your Light Wounds.

	 More	on	Dressing	and	Healing	Wounds	–	see	page	21.

Intruders run away from fire extinguishers like 
crazy. We have no idea why, but as they say “if 
it’s stupid, but it works, it ain’t stupid”.

24

rooM SHEET                                                                                                                 

<<<  room sheet  >>>

Nest
Take one Egg:
Take 1 Egg token from the Intruder board. After that, per-
form a Noise roll.

 
The Egg tokens placed on the Intruder board represent the Eggs 
in the Nest. When you take (or destroy) Eggs from the Nest, take 
them from the Intruder board. Note that taking an Egg from the In-
truder board costs 2 Actions, while picking up an Egg token from the 
map costs 1 Action.
  When  there  are  no  more  Eggs  in  the  Nest  (they  have  all  been 
carried away or destroyed), the Nest is considered destroyed – place  
1 Injury marker in the Nest to represent this.
 
If there is a Fire marker in a Room containing uncarried Eggs, 
destroy 1 uncarried Egg during the Fire Damage step of the Event 
Phase.
	 More	on	Event	Phase	–	see	page	10.
  Note: Remember that an Egg is a Heavy Object (see Items and Objects, 
page	22).
 
  DestroYING Eggs: 
  Whenever your Character is in a Room with any uncarried Eggs 
(not carried by any Character), you can try to destroy these Eggs.
  Resolve this Action as a Shoot Action or Melee Attack Action. 
Each Injury (of any type) destroys 1 Egg.
 
a Contamination card or suffer Wounds if they miss.
  You can also throw Grenades into a Room with uncarried Eggs 
as if an Intruder were there. A Grenade destroys 2 Eggs, a Molotov 
Cocktail destroys 1 Egg.
  After every single attempt to destroy an Egg, you must perform  
a Noise roll.
	 More	on	Noise	roll	–	see	page	15.

In the case of a Melee Attack Action, the Character does not draw 

Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.

Storage
Search for an Item: 
Draw 2 cards from the Item deck of a chosen color (Red, 
Yellow or Green). Pick 1 card and put the other at the bot-

tom of the deck.

Surgery

perform a Surgery procedure: 
Scan all Contamination cards (from your Action deck, hand 
and discard pile). Remove all Infected cards.

If you have a Larva on your Character board, remove it.

 
  After Scanning, your Character suffers 1 Light Wound and you 
automatically pass. Shuffle all your Action cards (including those in 
your hand and discard pile) and place them as a new Action deck.
 
hand	is	empty	until	the	start	of	the	next	round.
	 More	on	Scanning	Contamination	cards	–	see	page	20.

Note: After a Surgery procedure you always pass your turn, and your 

ADDITIoNAL rooMS "2"

Each game, only 5 randomly chosen Additional Rooms are used, out of the 
9 available. These Rooms are indicated by the num ber “2” on their back. 

Airlock Control
Start Emergency Depressurisation: 
Choose any 1 other Yellow Room. The Corridors connected to 
the Room you choose must not contain any Destroyed Doors.
  Automatically close the Door in each Corridor connected to that Room.
  Place the Depressurisation token in that Room to represent the 
active Emergency Depressurisation. If any of the Doors in Corridors 
connected to that Room are opened before the current Player Phase 
ends, remove the token.
 
If all Doors in each Corridor connected to that Room are Closed 
at the end of the current Player Phase (after all players have passed), 
everything in that Room dies immediately (both Characters and In-
truders). Then, remove the token.
 
carcasses and dropped Objects still remain.
 

If there was a Fire marker in that Room, remove it. Any corpses, 

Yellow Room means a Room with a yellow background on the Action part.

Cabins

Catch a breath: 
When your Character is in this Room at the start of a new round, and 
there are no Intruders there, draw 1 additional Action card (up to 6 
instead of 5).
 
function token in the Room.

The passive feature of this Room does not work if there is a Mal-

Canteen

Have a Snack...
Heal 1 Light Wound.
Additionally,  you  may  choose  to  Scan  all  Contamination 

cards in your hand and to remove all non-Infected cards.
 
If at least one of those cards is Infected, place a Larva miniature on 
your Character board (and do not remove this Contamination card!). If 
there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character dies 
– additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
	 More	on	Scanning	Contamination	cards	–	see	page	20.

Command Center

open / close Doors: 
You can choose any 1 Room and Close / Open any Doors in 
Corridors connected to that Room.

You may choose which Doors to Close and which to Open. You do not 

 
have to Open or Close them all.

Engine 
control room
Check Engines Status: 
You can Check the status of the 3 Engines.
You can check the status of the Engines even if there is a Malfunc-

tion marker in the Engine Room.
 
	 More	on	Checking	Engine	status	–	see	Engines,	Room	sheet,	page	26.

In the Engine Control Room, you cannot change the Engines status.

Hatch Control 
System

Lock / unlock 1 Escape pod: 
Flip 1 Escape Pod token to its Locked or Unlocked side.
More	on	Evacuation	Sections	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.

	 More	on	Escape	Pods	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	26.

Monitoring room
Check 1 room and Exploration token: 
Secretly look at any 1 unexplored Room tile and at its Ex-
ploration token. 

  After looking at them, place them back on the board. You don’t 
have to tell the truth about what you saw.
	 More	on	Exploration	tokens	–	see	page	14.

room covered 
with slime

You are Slimed!
  When you enter this Room, you automatically get a Slime marker.
	 More	on	Slime	markers	–	see	page	17.
 
	
token.

Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.
Note:	The	Slime	status	marker	is	placed	before	resolving	the	Exploration	

Shower room

Take a Shower:
If you have a Slime marker on your Character board, discard it.
Additionally,  you  may  choose  to  Scan  all  Contamination 

cards in your hand and to remove all non-Infected cards.
 
If at least one of those cards is Infected, place a Larva miniature on 
your Character board (and do not remove this Contamination card!). If 
there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character dies 
– additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
	 More	on	Slime	markers	–	see	page	17.
	 More	on	Scanning	Contamination	cards	–	see	page	20.
 
Note: A Fire marker can be placed in the Shower Room in the normal 
way. The Take a Shower Action does not discard a Fire marker from the 
Shower Room.

25

                                                                                            

<<<  room sheet  >>>

SpECIAL rooMS                 

The 5 Special Rooms always occupy the same place on the board – 
these Rooms have their own specific shapes and are printed on the 
board. All are treated as explored at the start of the game.
  Special Rooms are treated as normal Rooms, except that they 
are  explored  at  the  beginning  of  the  game  and  Characters  cannot 
perform any Search Action in these Rooms. They can receive Fire or 
Malfunction markers normally.

  You can Repair / Break Engine even if there is a Malfunction marker 
in the Room and even if you have not checked the status of the Engines.
	
Note:	The	ship	has	3	Engines,	two	of	which	must	be	functional	to	safely	
journey	back	to	Earth.	At	the	start	of	the	game,	the	players	don’t	know	which	
Engines are functional or not. Players may check the status of a given En-
gine	during	the	game	–	for	example,	in	its	corresponding	Engine	Room.	At	
the end of the game, if the ship was not destroyed earlier, all the top Engine 
tokens	are	revealed	to	determine	if	the	ship	explodes	or	not	during	its	at-
tempt at a hyperspace jump.
	 More	on	Engines	Check	–	see	page	11.
 

Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.

Cockpit

Flight Controls: 
Check Coordinates OR set Destination.
CHECK  CoorDINATES:  Secretly  look  at 
the Coordinates card. After looking at it, place it back on the board. 
You don’t need to tell the truth about what you saw.
  SET DESTINATIoN: Move the Destination marker to 
the chosen space of the Destination Track.
 
already hibernating.
The	player	should	remember	the	Coordinates	they’ve	checked.
	
You may never Set Destination if there is an Intruder in the Cockpit.
 
 
Note: At the end of the game, if the ship was not destroyed earlier, the 
Coordinates card is revealed. The position of the Destination marker indicates 
the Destination of the ship among the four available on the Coordinates card.
	 More	on	Coordinates	Check	–	see	page	11.
 

Note: You cannot change the Destination when any of the Characters are 

Note: You cannot perform a Search Action in this Room.

Engine #2
As above, but applies to Engine #2.

Engine #3
As above, but applies to Engine #3.

Engine #1

   

Check the Engine: 
Check the Engine status in this Engine Room – secretly look 
at the top Engine token. 

The top Engine token indicates the current state of the Engine!

  You don’t need to tell the truth about what you saw.
 
  rEpAIr (or BrEAK) ENGINE: 
  Your  Character  can  perform  a  Repair  /  Break  Engine  Action  in 
this Room (using a Repairs Action or a Tools Item card): take both 
Engine tokens, secretly check their contents and place them back in 
the order of your choice. 
  You do not have to tell the truth if you have repaired the Engine or 
not, but you must tell if you have changed the order of the tokens.

26

Hibernatorium

Try to hibernate: 
You may perform this Action only if the Hibernation chambers 
are open – the token on the Time Track is on any blue space.
  Perform a Noise roll. If any Intruder shows up in this Room, your 
attempt at entering the Hibernation chamber has failed.
 
If no Intruder appears, remove your Character miniature from the 
game – you managed to hibernate safely. From now on, you do not 
take part in the game any longer. Whether your Character survives or 
dies along with the ship will be determined at the end of the game.
  You cannot change the Destination or start the Self-Destruct 
sequence when any of the Characters are already hibernating.
 
the Hibernatorium.
	 More	on	End	of	the	Game	–	see	page	11.
	 More	on	Noise	rolls	–	see	Noise	roll,	page	15.
 
	
tion and prevents any maneuver that put their lives at risk.

Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.
Note:	The	ship’s	AI	is	programmed	to	protect	crew	members	in	hiberna-

You may never enter a Hibernation chamber if there is any Intruder in 

ESCApE poDS

At the beginning of the game, all Escape Pods are Locked. During 
play, players may Unlock them manually (by using some of the Item 
cards or Room Actions), or the Pods will Unlock automatically when 
any Character dies during the game or when the Self-Destruct mark-
er reaches any yellow space of the Self-Destruct Track.
	 More	on	manual	unlock	of	Escape	Pods	–	see	Hatch	Control	System,	
Room	sheet,	page	25.
	 More	on	automatic	unlock	of	Escape	Pods	–	see	Critical	Gameplay	Mo-
ments,	page	12.
	 More	on	Self-Destruct	sequence–	see	Generator,	Room	sheet,	page	24.
 
If a given Escape Pod is Unlocked, a Character may enter it (performing 
a Noise roll first) through the corresponding Evacuation Section Room, as 
long as there are no Intruders and no Malfunction token in the Room.
	 More	on	Evacuation	Sections	–	see	Room	sheet,	page	24.
  After entering an Escape pod, place the miniature of 
your Character on one of the two spaces of that Escape Pod token.
  Afterwards, decide if you want to launch an Escape Pod immedi-
ately or wait (maybe for another Character who might want to enter 
the same Pod and take the second space in it).
 
If you launch immediately (or if you launch in one of the 
following  rounds),  remove  the  miniature  of  your  Character  and  the 
Escape Pod token from the game. From now on, you do not take part 
in the game any longer. Will you end this game with a victory or not? 
You’ll find out during the Objectives Check at the end of the game.
  Any Character in a launched Escape Pod is always treated as if 
they have arrived on Earth.
	 More	on	End	of	the	Game	–	see	page	11.
 
If you wait, you can decide to launch the Escape Pod at the 
start of your first turn during each Player Phase. You can also, if 
you wish, exit the Escape Pod voluntarily, without performing any 
Action – during your turn, just place your Character miniature back 
in the Evacuation Section corresponding to the Pod you are leaving. 
However,  if  you  do  not  launch  the  Escape  Pod  on  your  turn,  you 
automatically pass this round.
 
If (while you wait in the Escape Pod) an Intruder appears in your 
Evacuation Section Room, then all Characters in Escape Pods in your 
Evacuation Section Room are automatically returned to that Room.
  Once another Character enters the same Escape Pod as you, they 
can decide to launch the Escape Pod immediately.

Note: Heavy Objects do not occupy any Character space in an Escape Pod.

Empty Escape Pods slots

 

Locked	Escape	Pods

Unlocked Escape Pods

game modes                                                   

Solo & Cooperative
mode                                 

playing 
as an Intruder                 

Solo MoDe 
While Nemesis shines as a standard, semi-cooperative game, you 
can also try to survive alone.
 
This  mode  has  its  own  special  Objectives  deck  –  Solo  /  Coop 
Objectives. At the start of the game, draw two cards from this deck, 
instead of the regular Objective cards.
  Note: Once the first Encounter occurs, you must choose one of these 
two Objective cards.
 
Important: In this mode, the number of Items available in each Room is 
reduced	by	half,	rounded	up	(if	the	Exploration	tokens	show	1–2	Items	–	set	
the	Item	Counter	to	1,	if	3–4	–	set	the	Item	Counter	to	2).
 

To win, you must fulfill your Objective and survive.

FuLLY CoopErATIvE MoDE 
This additional game mode is intended for players who want to expe-
rience a fully cooperative version of the game, without having to fear 
betrayal from their companions.
 
This mode has its own special Objectives deck – Solo / Coop Ob-
jectives. At the start of the game, draw one card per player, instead 
of the regular Objective cards. These cards are public information.
 
least 1 Character must survive.
	
Note:	If	there	is	one	card	requiring	you	to	send	the	Signal	–	only	one	
Character	must	do	it.	If	there	are	two	or	more	such	requirements	–	that	
many Characters must send the Signal!

To win the game, ALL these Objectives must be fulfilled and at 

rEvIvE 
In  this  fully  cooperative  mode,  the  Emergency  Room  is  equipped 
with a specialized AutoDoc device, allowing the crew to revive any 
near-death person.
  Whenever one of the Characters dies, another Character might 
pick up their Corpse token and carry it to the working Emergency 
Room.
  A player whose Corpse is in the Emergency Room places their 
Character miniature there at the start of the next round. All their Light 
Wounds are discarded, all their Serious Wounds are Dressed.
	
a Malfunction token in it.

Important:	The	Emergency	Room	does	not	work	if	there’s	an	Intruder	or	

This  mode  is  intended  to  allow  the  first  eliminated  player  to  keep  on 
playing the game by controlling the Intruders. It also slightly increases 
the difficulty level for all the remaining players. Note that this mode is 
optional.
 
festing the ship and can hunt down the other players.
	
Important:	Only	one	player	takes	over	the	Intruders	–	the	first	one	to	
lose their Character. If two Characters die simultaneously, the player with  
the lower player number gets to control them.

The player whose Character dies first gets to control the Intruders in-

Set  up: The player controlling the Intruders removes all their former 
Character’s components from the game. They shuffle the special Intruder 
Player Action deck and place it in front of them.
 
changes are applied only at the start of the next Player Phase.

Then, finish the current round according to the standard rules. Any 

1. Draw Action cards. The Intruder player draws 3 cards, to a maxi-

2.  First  Player  Token.  The  Intruder  player  is  omitted  during  this 

round oRDER: 
PLAYER PHASE
 
mum of 4. Their hand limit is 4 cards.
 
Phase (they never take the First Player token).
3. Player Turns. The Intruder player follows the standard order of play 
 
for playing their turns, but they can only take 1 Action (by playing a card from 
their hand) or pass.
  When passing, the Intruder player may choose to keep 1 card from 
their hand and discard the rest.

Note: If the Intruder moves to a Technical Corridor, proceed according 

1)  MOVE  –  Move  any  Intruder  through  a  Corridor  with  a  number 

During their turn, the Intruder player can play an Intruder Action card in 
one of the following three ways:
 
matching the one printed on the Intruder Action card.
 
to the standard rules.
 
2) ATTACK – Choose any Intruder in the same Room as a Character. 
The Intruder Attacks that Character, following the standard rules, with 
one  exception:  the  Intruder  player  draws  a  number  of  Intruder  Attack 
cards equal to the number displayed on the Intruder player card played 
this round. Then, they choose 1 of these cards to be resolved and put all 
the others at the bottom of the Intruder Attack deck. The chosen Charac-
ter is Attacked regardless of the other Characters in the room.
 

3) EFFECT – Resolve the effect described on the Intruder Action card.

EVENT PHASE 
Almost all of the entire Event Phase is omitted, with the exception of the 
Time Track and Fire Damage.
 
and Self-Destruct marker (if active) 1 space to the right.

Time Track: Just like in the standard rules, move the Time marker 

  Fire Damage: Just like in the standard rules, every Intruder in a 
Room with a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury. 
 
Note: All the other steps do not apply in this mode! Specifically:
	
–	Intruders	do	not	Attack	at	the	end	of	the	turn	(but	they	still	make	Sur-
prise Attacks during Encounters or when Characters Escape from Rooms 
with Intruders).
	
card Effects.
	

–	Event	cards	are	not	used	unless	as	a	result	of	Intruder	Player	Action	

–	There	is	no	Intruder	bag	development	step.

VICTORY CONDITION 
The player controlling the Intruders cannot fully win the game. Their goal is 
to ensure that no other players wins. After all, if you have already lost, you 
better make sure all the other players get the same treatment!

Alternative side 
of the board                 

You can use this additional ship layout in any game mode, but keep in 
mind that it is more difficult to survive on it.
  One of the features of this ship layout is the double set of Technical 
Corridors. They work as usual, but each one is not connected to the other 
(any Noise marker in the Red Technical Corridors is separate from the 
Blue Technical Corridors).
Another feature is that some of the Rooms are connected to another 
 
Room through a pair of Corridors. They are separate from each other, so 
any Closed Doors in one Corridor do not affect the other.
  During game setup, place the Evacuation sections A and B face up on 
the highlighted spot on the above map. Place an Exploration token face 
down on each section (when a Character enters these Rooms for the first 
time, proceed with the standard Exploration procedure).

27

                 rules summary                         

– 2 Actions,
– OR 1 Action and pass,
– OR pass.

round order                 
I: player phase:
1) Draw up to 5 Action cards.
2) The First Player token is passed to the player on the left.
3) Player turns. Each player plays in clockwise order:
 
 
 
  After passing, a player does not take part in any subsequent turn 
this round.
4) Repeat Step 3 until all players have passed.
II: Event phase:
5) Move the Time marker on the Time Track.
  Move the Self-Destruct sequence marker on the Self-Destruct Track 
if active.
6) Intruder Attack.
7) Intruder Fire Damage.
8) Resolve 1 Event card:
 
 
9) Intruder bag development: Draw 1 token and resolve its Effect.

Intruder Movement.
Event Effect.

Game Flow 
& Critical Moments                 
First Encounter
When the first Intruder (of any type) appears on the board, all players 
must choose 1 Objective and discard the other face down.
First dead Character
After the first Character’s death (of any player), all Escape Pods are 
automatically Unlocked.
 

Optionally, the first dead Character may play as the Intruder.

Hibernation chambers
When the Time Track reaches any blue space, the Hibernation cham-
bers open.

Self-destruct sequence
When the Self-Destruct Track reaches any yellow space, all Escape 
Pods are automatically Unlocked.

Exploration                         

When entering an unexplored (face-down) Room:
1) Turn over its Room tile (face up).
2) Reveal its Exploration token and resolve its Effect. Some of the 
Effects may cancel step 3.
3) If there is no one in the Room, perform a Noise roll.

28

Combat                                 

You are in Combat every time you are in a Room with an Intruder.

Shooting (cost 1):
1) Choose a Weapon and a target.
2) Discard an Ammo token from the chosen Weapon.
3) Roll a Combat die.
 
and check the Injury Effect.

If you hit, apply an Injury token, then draw an Intruder Attack card 

Melee ATTACK (cost 1):
1) Draw 1 Contamination card.
2) Choose a target.
3) Roll a Combat die (rolls of 2 Hits are treated as 1 Hit).
 
card and check the Injury Effect.
 

If you miss, the Intruder deals you 1 Serious Wound.

If you hit, apply an Injury token, then draw an Intruder Attack 

Escape (special Move Action, cost 1):
1) Choose a neighboring Room you wish to go to.
2) Draw an Intruder Attack card and resolve it:
 
were in.
 
(Explore a new Room, perform a Noise roll and so on).

If  you  survive,  you  move.  Resolve  this  move  as  usual  

If you die, place a Character Corpse token in the Room you 

Intruder Attack                 

1) Choose the targeted Character (the one with the fewest cards 
in their hand).
2) Draw an Intruder Attack card and resolve it:
 
type, the Attack is successful. Resolve the Effect of the card.
 
misses.

If any Intruder symbol corresponds to the Attacking Intruder 

If there is no corresponding symbol on the card, the Attack 

intruder symbols: 

– LARVA

– CREEPER

– ADULT 

 

 

– BREEDER

 – QUEEN

Actions                                 

Discard	2	cards	when	performing	a	Careful	Movement	Action.

You cannot discard any of your Contamination cards to pay for the 
Cost of an Action.
Basic Actions
Discard 1 Action card from your hand to perform 1 Basic Action.
	
Action cards
Discard the card of the Action you want to perform and pay its Cost 
by discarding the required number of additional Action cards.
room Actions
Discard 2 Action cards from your hand to perform a Room Action. 
Cannot be performed in Rooms with a Malfunction marker.
Item Actions
Discard the required number of Action cards from your hand to per-
form an Item Action.
  Some Items (One Use Only) must also be discarded after their 
Action.

Items and objects                 
Items
Normal  Items  go  in  your  Inventory,  so  no  one  but  you  knows  
exactly what you have found.

quest Items
At  the  beginning  of  the  game,  these  cards  are  quests  (horizontal 
side), not Items.
  You can activate them by completing the required quest.

Heavy Items
You can carry at most 2 Heavy Items, one in each of your Hand slots.
 
If you want to exchange a Heavy Item you are carrying with an-
other, simply drop it for free.
objects
Intruder Egg, Intruder Carcass, Character Corpse.
  Required for researching Intruder Weaknesses.
 
  When you drop one of these, place its token in the Room you are in.

They take up a Hand slot, like a Heavy Item.

 

 

 

 

 

